<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2>
			<p>“Well, this is the time you beat me to it,” commented the reporter approvingly. “That’s the hat I like too. Want a pencil?”</p>
			<p>“I always want a pencil,” said the redheaded girl. “And I beat everybody to it. I’d rather get here at six o’clock than go through that howling mob of maniacs one single time more. Besides, I’ve been sleeping, so I might as well be here. Besides, I thought that if I got here early you might tell me whether it was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives or <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell who did it.”</p>
			<p>“Who did what?”</p>
			<p>“Who killed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Lord!” groaned the reporter. “Why is it that every mortal soul at a murder trial spends his life trying to pin the crime on to anyone in the world but the people being tried for it. Talk about juries!”</p>
			<p>“I’m not talking about juries,” said the redheaded girl firmly. “I’m talking about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives. Don’t you think that it was funny that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell was there that day?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, comical as all get out! Still and all, I believe that he was there precisely when he said he was. That poor devil was telling the truth.”</p>
			<p>“How do you know?” inquired the redheaded girl respectfully.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you get hunches at this game when you’ve been at it long enough.”</p>
			<p>“That must be nice. Did you get a hunch about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“About Pat Ives? I haven’t heard him yet.”</p>
			<p>“What did it mean, his not being at that poker game?”</p>
			<p>“Well, it might have meant anything in the world⁠—or nothing. The only thing that’s perfectly clear is that it meant that last night was undoubtedly one of wassail and carouse for Uncle Dudley Lambert.”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“My dear child, didn’t you see the look of unholy glee that flooded the old gentleman’s countenance when he realized that young <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives hadn’t a shadow of an alibi for that eventful evening?”</p>
			<p>“Well, but why?”</p>
			<p>“Because the only thing that Uncle Dudley would as soon do as save his angel goddaughter from the halter is to drape one around Pat Ives’s neck. He’s hated Pat ever since he dared to subject his precious Sue to a life of good healthy hardship in New York; he’s never forgiven him for estranging her from her father; and since he found out that he betrayed her with the Bellamy girl, he’s been simply imbecile with rage. And now, through some heaven-sent fluke, he’s enabled to put his life in jeopardy. He’s almost out of his head. He’d better go a bit warily, however. If I can read the human countenance⁠—and it may interest you to know that I can read the human countenance⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives is not entirely in favour of sending her unworthy spouse to the gallows. She had a monitory look in her eye that bodes ill for Uncle Dudley if she ever realizes what he’s doing.”</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl heaved an unhappy sigh. “Well, I don’t believe that anyone did it,” she remarked spaciously. “Not anyone here, I mean. Burglars, probably, or one of those funny organizations, or⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Silence, silence! The Court!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr had a new purple necktie, sombre and impressive; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert was a trifle more frivolous, though the polka dots were discreet; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives wore the same tweed suit, the same copper-coloured hat. Heavens, it might as well be a uniform!</p>
			<p>“Call Miss Cordier.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Melanie Cordier!”</p>
			<p>The slim elegance of the figure in the severely simple black coat and black cloche hat was especially startling when one remembered that Miss Melanie Cordier was the waitress in the Ives household. It was a trifle more comprehensible when one remembered that she was as Gallic as her name implied. With her creamy skin, her long black eyes and smooth black curves of hair, her lacquer-red mouth exactly matching the lacquer-red camellia on her lapel, Miss Cordier bore a striking resemblance to a fashion magazine’s cover designs. She mounted the witness box with profound composure and seated herself, elaborately at ease.</p>
			<p>“Miss Cordier, what was your occupation on the nineteenth of June, 1926?”</p>
			<p>“I was waitress in the employment of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives.” There was only the faintest trace of accent in the clear syllables⁠—a slight softening of consonants and broadening of vowels, becoming enough variations on an Anglo-Saxon theme.</p>
			<p>“How long had you been in her employ?”</p>
			<p>“A year and nine month⁠—ten month. I could not be quite sure.”</p>
			<p>“How did you happen to go to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“It was through <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy that I go.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Stephen Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, through <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Stephen Bellamy.”</p>
			<p>“Will you tell us just how that happened, Miss Cordier?”</p>
			<p>“Assuredly. My little younger sister had been sent by an agency three or four years ago to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy directly when she land in this country. She was quite inexperience’, you understand, and could not command a position such as one trained could demand; but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy was good to her and she work hard, and after a while she marries a young man who drives for the grocer and they⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Yes, quite so, Miss Cordier. My question was, how did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy happen to send you to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that is what I explain.” Miss Cordier, exquisitely unruffled, pursued the even tenor of her way. “Sometime when my sister was there with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy I would go out to show her what she should do. For me, I have been a waitress for eight years and am well experience’. Well, then I see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy and tell her that if some time she knows of a excellent position in that Rosemont, I would take it so that sometime I could see my little sister who is marrying that young man from the grocer’s. And about two years ago, maybe, she write to me to say that her friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives she is looking for a extremely superior waitress. So that is how I go to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives.”</p>
			<p>“Are you still in the employ of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“No. On June twentieth I resign, since I am not quite content with something that have happen.”</p>
			<p>“Did this occurrence have anything to do with the death of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“That I do not say. But I was not content.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Cordier, have you seen this book before? I call your attention to its title⁠—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Stone on Commercial Paper</i>, Volume <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>.”</p>
			<p>Miss Cordier’s black eyes swept it perfunctorily. “Yes, that book I know.”</p>
			<p>“When did you last see it?”</p>
			<p>“The night of June nineteenth, about nine o’clock.”</p>
			<p>“Where?”</p>
			<p>“In the study of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives.”</p>
			<p>“What particularly brought it to your attention?”</p>
			<p>“Because I take it out of the corner by the desk to look inside it.”</p>
			<p>“For what purpose?”</p>
			<p>“Because I want to see whether a note I put there that afternoon still was there.”</p>
			<p>“And was that note still there, Miss Cordier?”</p>
			<p>“No, monsieur, that note, it was gone.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor tossed the impressive volume carelessly on to the clerk’s desk. “I offer this volume in evidence, Your Honour.”</p>
			<p>“Any objections?” Judge Carver turned an inquiring eye on the bulky figure of Dudley Lambert, hovering uncertainly over the buckram-clad repository of correspondence.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert, shifting from one foot to the other, eyed the volume as though he were endeavouring to decide whether it were an infernal machine or a jewel casket, and with one final convulsive effort arrived at a conclusion: “No objection.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Cordier, to whom was the note that you placed in the book addressed?”</p>
			<p>“It was addressed to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives.”</p>
			<p>“Was it written by you?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, no, no, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know by whom it was written?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“By whom?”</p>
			<p>“By <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Stephen Bellamy.”</p>
			<p>“And how did it happen that you were in possession of a note from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“It was the habit of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy to mail to me letters that she desire’ to have reach <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives, without anyone should know. Outside there would be my name on the envelope; inside there would be a more small envelope with the name of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives on it. That one I would put in the book.”</p>
			<p>“You had been doing this for some time?”</p>
			<p>“For some time, yes⁠—six months⁠—maybe eight.”</p>
			<p>“How many notes had you placed there, to the best of your recollection?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, that I am not quite sure⁠—ten⁠—twelve⁠—twenty⁠—who knows? At first once a month, maybe; that last month, two and three each week.”</p>
			<p>“At what time did you put the note there?”</p>
			<p>“Maybe fifteen minutes before seven, maybe twenty. After half-past six, I know, and not yet seven.”</p>
			<p>“Was that your usual habit?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, monsieur; it was my habit to put them there in the night, when I make dark the house. Half-past six, that was a very bad time, because quite easily someone might see.”</p>
			<p>“Then why did you choose that time, Miss Cordier?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but I do not choose. You see, it was like this: That night, when MacDonald, the chauffeur, bring in the letters a little bit after six, this one it was there for me, in a envelope that was write on it ‘Urgent.’ On the little envelope inside it say ‘Urgent⁠—Very Urgent’ in letters with lines under them most black, and so I know that there is great haste that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives he should get that letter quick. So I start to go to the study, but there in the hall is all those people who have come from the club, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives she send me quick to get some canapés, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dallas he come with me to show me what he want for the cocktails⁠—limes and honey and all those thing, you know.” She looked appealingly at the prosecutor from the long black eyes and for a moment his tense countenance relaxed into a grim smile.</p>
			<p>“You were about to tell us why you placed the note there at that time.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; that is what I tell. Well, I wait and I wait for those people to go home, and still they do not go, but I dare not go in so long as across the hall from the study they all stay in that living room. But after a while I cannot wait any longer for fear that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives should come and not find that most urgent note. So very quiet I slip in when I think no one look, and I put that note quick, quick in the book, and I start to come out in the hall; but when I get to the door I see there is someone in the hall and I step back again to wait till they are gone.”</p>
			<p>“And whom did you see in the hall, Miss Cordier?”</p>
			<p>“I see in the hall <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Elliot Farwell and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives.”</p>
			<p>“Did they see you?”</p>
			<p>Miss Cordier lifted eloquent shoulders. “How do I know, monsieur? Maybe they do, maybe they don’t⁠—me, I cannot tell. I step back quick and listen, and after a while their voices stop and I hear a door close, and I come out quick through the hall and into the door to the kitchen without I see no one.”</p>
			<p>“Did you hear what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives were saying?”</p>
			<p>“No, that I could not hear even when I listen, so low they talk, so low that almost they whisper.”</p>
			<p>“You heard nothing else while you were there?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, monsieur. While I stand by the desk, but before I take out the book, I heard mademoiselle go through the hall with the children.”</p>
			<p>“Mademoiselle? Mademoiselle who?” The prosecutor’s voice was expressionless enough, but there was a prophetic shadow of annoyance in his narrowed eyes.</p>
			<p>“Mademoiselle Page.”</p>
			<p>“You say that she was simply passing through the hall?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, monsieur⁠—on her way to the stairs.”</p>
			<p>“You had not yet touched the book?”</p>
			<p>“No, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“You waited until she passed before you did so?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives in the hall at the time that you placed the note in the book?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, that, too, I do not say. I say only that she was there one minute⁠—one half minute after I have put it there.”</p>
			<p>“Could she have seen you place it in the book from the position in which you saw her standing?”</p>
			<p>“It is possible.”</p>
			<p>“Was she facing you?”</p>
			<p>“No, monsieur; it is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell who face’ me. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives had the back toward me.”</p>
			<p>Again that shadow of fierce annoyance, turning the blue eyes almost black. “Then what makes you say that she might have seen you?”</p>
			<p>The dark eyes meeting his widened a trifle in something too tranquil for surprise⁠—a mild, indolent wonder at the obtuseness of the human race in general, men in particular, and prosecutors more particularly still. “I say that because it might well be that in that little minute she have turn’ the back to me, or if she have not, then it might be that she see in the mirror.”</p>
			<p>“There was a mirror?”</p>
			<p>“But yes, on the other side of the hall from the study door there is a long, long chair⁠—a what you call a bench⁠—where the gentlemen they leave their hats. Over that there hangs the mirror. And it was by that bench that I see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives.”</p>
			<p>“And the desk and the bookcase were reflected in the mirror?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Now did you notice anything at dinner, Miss Cordier?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing at all; everything was as usual, of an entire serenity.”</p>
			<p>“It was at the usual hour?”</p>
			<p>“At quarter past seven⁠—yes.”</p>
			<p>“Who was present?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daniel Ives, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives, as usual.”</p>
			<p>“Do you recall the conversation?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, monsieur, I recall only that everyone talk as always about small things. It is my practice, like an experience’ waitress, serious and discreet, to be little in the dining room⁠—only when serving, you understand.” The serious and discreet waitress eyed her interrogator with a look of bland superiority.</p>
			<p>“Nothing struck you as unusual after dinner?”</p>
			<p>“No, no.”</p>
			<p>“You saw no one before you turned out the lights for the night?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, I have seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daniel Ives at that time, and she ask me whether <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives have return, and I say no.”</p>
			<p>“No one else?”</p>
			<p>“Only the other domestics, monsieur. At a little past ten I retire’ for the night.”</p>
			<p>“You went to sleep immediately?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“Breakfast was just as usual the next morning?”</p>
			<p>“As usual⁠—yes.”</p>
			<p>“At what time?”</p>
			<p>“At nine, as on all Sundays. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives have hers at half-past nine, when she gets home from church.”</p>
			<p>“Nothing unusual in that?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no; on the contrary, that is her habit.”</p>
			<p>“And after breakfast, nothing unusual occurred?”</p>
			<p>“I do not know whether you call it unusual, but after breakfast, yes, something occurred.”</p>
			<p>“Just tell us what it was, please.”</p>
			<p>Miss Cordier spent an interminable moment critically inspecting a pair of immaculate cream-coloured gloves before she decided to gratify this desire: “It was just so soon as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives and his mother have finish’ breakfast, a few minutes before half-past nine. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives he go directly to his study, and I go after him with the Sunday papers and before I go out I ask⁠—because me, I am desirous to know⁠—‘<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives, you have got that note all right what I put in the book?’ And he say⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Your Honour, I object! I object! What <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives said⁠—”</p>
			<p>This time there was no indecision whatever in the clamour set up by the long-suffering Lambert, and the prosecutor, eyeing him benevolently, raised a warning hand to his witness. “Never mind what he said, Miss Cordier. Just tell us what you said.”</p>
			<p>“I said, after he spoke, ‘Oh, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives, then if you have not got it, it is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives who have found it. She have seen me put it in the book while she stood there in the hall.’ ”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor waited for a well-considered moment to permit this conveniently revelatory reply to sink in. “It was after this conversation with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives that you decided you would no longer remain with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“No, monsieur, it was later in the morning that I decide that.”</p>
			<p>“Something occurred that made you decide it then?”</p>
			<p>Miss Cordier’s lacquer-red lips parted, closed, parted again. “Yes.”</p>
			<p>“What, Miss Cordier?”</p>
			<p>“At half-past eleven I have heard that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy have been killed.” The dark eyes slipped sidelong in the direction of the quiet young woman who had not so long since been her mistress. There she sat, leaning easily back in the straight, uncomfortable chair, ankles crossed, hands linked, studying the tips of her squarely cut little shoes with lowered eyes. The black eyes travelled from the edge of the kilted skirt to the edge of the small firm chin and then slid slowly back to the prosecutor: “When I heard that, I was not content, so I no longer stayed.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly.” The prosecutor plunged his hands deep in his pockets and cocked a flagrantly triumphant eye at the agitated Lambert. “You no longer stayed. That will be all, Miss Cordier. Cross-examine.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Cordier, you knew perfectly that if for one second it came to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s attention that you had been acting as go-between in the alleged correspondence between her husband and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy you would not have remained five minutes under her roof, did you not?”</p>
			<p>Miss Cordier leaned a trifle farther over the edge of the witness box to meet the rough anger of Lambert’s voice, something ugly and insolent hardening the creamy mask of her face.</p>
			<p>“I know that when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives is angered she is quick to speak, quick to act⁠—yes, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>At the fatal swiftness of that blow, the ruddy face before her sagged and paled, then rallied valiantly. “And so you decided that you had better leave before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives questioned her about finding the note and you were turned out in disgrace, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I have said already, monsieur, that I leave because I have heard that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy have been murdered and I am not content.” The ominously soft voice pronounced each syllable with a lingering and deadly deliberation.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert eyed her savagely and moved heavily on: “You say that you were cut off from escaping through the hall by the fact that you saw that it was occupied by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“That is so.”</p>
			<p>“Why didn’t you go back through the dining room to the pantry?”</p>
			<p>“Because I hear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dallas and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burgoyne talking from the dining room, where they try one more cocktail.”</p>
			<p>“Why should they have thought it unusual to have you come from the study?”</p>
			<p>“I think it more prudent that no one should know I have been in that study.”</p>
			<p>“You were simply staying there in order to spy on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives, weren’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I could not help see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives unless I close’ my eyes.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert was obliged to swallow twice before he was able to continue:</p>
			<p>“Did you tell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell was in the hall also at the time that you saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives there?”</p>
			<p>“I do not remember whether I tell him or whether I do not.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell was facing you, was he not?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“What made you so sure that it was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives who took the note, not <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell?”</p>
			<p>“Because, when I hear the door close, then I know that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell he has gone.”</p>
			<p>“And how did you know that?”</p>
			<p>Once more Miss Cordier raised eloquent shoulders. “Because, monsieur, I am not stupid. I look out, he is standing by the hat stand; I go back, I hear a door close, I look out once more, and he is not there. But that is of the most elementary.”</p>
			<p>“You should be a detective instead of wasting your time waiting on tables,” commented her courtly interrogator. “The plain truth is, isn’t it, that anyone in the house might have gone out and closed that door while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell went back to the living room with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“If you say so, monsieur,” replied Miss Cordier indifferently.</p>
			<p>“And the plain truth is that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell was frantically infatuated with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy and was spying on her constantly, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“It is possible.”</p>
			<p>“Possible! <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell himself stated it half a dozen times from this very witness box. It’s a plain fact. And another plain fact is that any one of a dozen other people might have passed through the hall and seen you at work, mightn’t they?”</p>
			<p>“I should not believe so⁠—no, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“Whether you believe it or not, it happens to be the truth. Six or eight servants, eight or ten guests⁠—What reason have you for believing that Miss Page herself did not notice something unusual in your attitude and turn back in time to see you place the note after you believed that she had passed?”</p>
			<p>“No reason, monsieur⁠—only the evidence of all five of my senses.”</p>
			<p>“You are a highly talented young woman, Miss Cordier, but you can’t see with your back turned, can you?”</p>
			<p>“Monsieur is pleased to jest,” remarked Miss Cordier, in the tone of one frankly undiverted.</p>
			<p>“Don’t characterize my questions, please⁠—answer them.”</p>
			<p>“Willingly. I do not see with my back turn’.”</p>
			<p>“So it comes down to the fact that ten⁠—twelve⁠—fourteen people might have seen you place this urgent and mysterious note that you so boldly charge <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives with taking, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“That is monsieur’s opinion, not mine.”</p>
			<p>Monsieur glared menacingly at the not too subtle mockery adorning the witness’s pleasing countenance.</p>
			<p>“And furthermore, Miss Cordier, it comes down to the fact that we have only your word for it that the note was ever placed in the book at all, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Monsieur does not find that sufficient?”</p>
			<p>Monsieur ignored the question, but his countenance testified eloquently that such was indeed the case.</p>
			<p>“Just how did you happen to select a book in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s library as a hiding place for this correspondence?”</p>
			<p>“Because that is a good safe place, where every night he can look without anyone to watch.”</p>
			<p>“What made you think that someone else might not take out that book to read?”</p>
			<p>“That book? <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Stone on Commercial Paper</i>, Volume <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>? Monsieur is pleased to jest!”</p>
			<p>Monsieur, scowling unattractively at some openly diverted members of the press, changed his line of attack with some abruptness. “Miss Cordier, you know a man called Adolph Platz, do you not?”</p>
			<p>Miss Cordier’s lashes flickered once⁠—twice. “Of a certainty.”</p>
			<p>“Did you see him in the afternoon of the nineteenth of June?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“How did you come to know him?”</p>
			<p>“He was for a time chauffeur to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives.”</p>
			<p>“Married, wasn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“Married, yes.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Platz was a chambermaid in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s employ?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“They left because <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Platz quarrelled with you, did they not?”</p>
			<p>“One moment, please.” The prosecutor lifted an imperious voice. “Are we to be presented with an account of all the backstairs quarrels, past and present, indulged in by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s domestics? To the best of my belief, my distinguished adversary is entering a field, however profitable and entertaining it may prove, that I have left totally virgin. Does the court hold this proper for cross-examination?”</p>
			<p>“The Court does not. The question is overruled.”</p>
			<p>“I ask an exception, Your Honour.⁠ ⁠… Miss Cordier, when you were turning out the lights that night, did you go into all the downstairs rooms?”</p>
			<p>“Into all of them⁠—yes.”</p>
			<p>“Did you see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives in any of them?”</p>
			<p>“No, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>Sue Ives leaned forward with a swift gesture, a sudden wave of colour sweeping her from throat to brow. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert looked diligently away.</p>
			<p>“You have placed great stress on your skill, experience, and training as a waitress, Miss Cordier. Are you a waitress at present?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Just what is your present occupation?”</p>
			<p>“At present I have no occupation. I rest.”</p>
			<p>“In the boarding house in Atlantic City where you have been occupied in resting for the past three or four months, you are not reposing under the name of Melanie Cordier, are you?”</p>
			<p>The black eyes darted toward the prosecutor, who stood leaning, shrewd and careless, over the back of a tilted chair. “Is it particularly germane to this inquiry whether Miss Cordier chooses to call herself Joan of Arc, if she wants to?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“I propose to attack the credibility of this witness,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert unctuously. “I propose to prove by this witness, that while she is posing here as a correct young person and a model servant she is actually living a highly incorrect life as a supposedly married woman.⁠ ⁠… Miss Cordier, I ask you whether for the past three months you have not been passing as the wife of Adolph Platz, having persuaded him to abandon his own wife?”</p>
			<p>In the pale oval of her face the black eyes flamed and smoked. “And I tell you no, no, and again no, monsieur!”</p>
			<p>“You do not go under the name of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Adolph Platz?”</p>
			<p>“I do not persuade him to abandon that stupid doll, his wife. Long before I knew him, he was tired and sick of her.”</p>
			<p>“You do not go under the name of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Adolph Platz?”</p>
			<p>“That is most simple. Monsieur Platz he have been to me a excellent friend and adviser. When I explain to him that I am greatly in need of rest he suggest to me that a woman young, alone, and of not an entire lack of attraction would quite possibly find it more restful if the world should consider her married. So he is amiable enough to suggest that if it should assist me, I might for this small vacation use his name. It is only thing I have take from him, monsieur may rest assured.”</p>
			<p>“You remove a great weight from my mind,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert assured her, horridly playful; “and from the minds of these twelve gentlemen as well, I am sure.” The twelve gentlemen, who had been following the lady’s simple and virtuous explanation of her somewhat unconventional conduct with startled attention, smiled for the first time in four days, shifting stiffly on their chairs and exchanging sidelong glances, skeptically jocose. “It is a pleasure to all of us to know that such chivalry as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Platz has exhibited is not entirely extinct in this wicked workaday world. I hardly think that we can improve on your explanation as to why you are known in Atlantic City as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Adolph Platz, Miss Cordier. That will be all.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor, who did not seem unduly perturbed by these weighty flights of sarcasm, continued to lean on his chair, though he once more lifted his voice: “You had saved quite a sum of money during these past years, hadn’t you, Miss Cordier?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“It proved ample for your modest needs on this long-planned and greatly needed vacation, did it not?”</p>
			<p>“More than ample⁠—yes.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Platz had left his wife some time before these unhappy events caused you to leave <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives, hadn’t he?”</p>
			<p>“Of a surety, monsieur.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all, thank you, Miss Cordier.”</p>
			<p>Miss Cordier moved leisurely from the stand, chic and poised as ever, disdaining even a glance at the highly gratified Lambert, and bestowing the briefest of smiles on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, who responded even more briefly. Many a lady, trailing sable and brocade from an opera box, has moved with less assurance and grace than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s onetime waitress, the temporary <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Adolph Platz. The eyes of the courtroom, perplexed, diverted, and faintly disturbed, followed her balanced and orderly retreat, the scarlet camellia defiant as a little flag.</p>
			<p>“Call Miss Roberts.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Laura Roberts!”</p>
			<p>Miss Laura Roberts also wore black, but she wore her black with a difference. A decent, sober, respectful apparel for a decent, sober, respectful little person⁠—Miss Roberts, comely, rosy-faced, gray-eyed, fawn-haired and soft-voiced, had all the surface qualifications of an ideal maid, and she obviously considered that those qualifications did not include scarlet lips and scarlet flowers. Under the neat black hat her eyes met the prosecutor’s shyly and bravely.</p>
			<p>“Miss Roberts, what was your occupation on June nineteenth, 1926?”</p>
			<p>“I was maid and seamstress to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives, sir.”</p>
			<p>The pretty English voice, with its neat, clipped accent, fell pleasantly and reassuringly on the ears of the courtroom, which relaxed with unfeigned relief from the tensity into which her Gallic colleague had managed to plunge it during her tenure of the witness box.</p>
			<p>“Did you see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives on the evening of the nineteenth?”</p>
			<p>“Not after dinner⁠—no, sir. I asked her before dinner if it would be quite all right for cook and me to go down to the village to church that night, and she said quite, and not to bother about getting home early, because she wouldn’t be needing me again. So after church we met two young gentlemen that we knew and went across to the drug store and had some ices, and sat talking a bit before we walked home, so that it was well on to eleven when we got in, and all the lights were out except the one in the kitchen, so I knew that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives was in bed.”</p>
			<p>“What time did you leave the house for church, Miss Roberts?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I couldn’t exactly swear to it, sir, but it must have been around half-past eight; because service was at nine, and it’s a good bit of a walk, and I do remember hurrying with dinner so that I could turn down the beds and be off.”</p>
			<p>“Were you chambermaid in the household as well as seamstress-maid?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, sir; only it was the chambermaid’s night off, you see, and then it was my place to do it.”</p>
			<p>“I see. So on this night you turned down all the beds before eight-thirty?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir⁠—all but Miss Page’s, that is.”</p>
			<p>“That wasn’t included in your duties?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, sir, it was. But that night when I got to the day nurse’s door it was locked, and when I knocked, no one didn’t answer at first, and then Miss Page called out that she had a headache and had gone to bed already⁠—”</p>
			<p>Miss Roberts hesitated and looked down at the prosecutor with honest, troubled eyes.</p>
			<p>“Nothing extraordinary about that, was there?”</p>
			<p>“Well, yes, sir, there was. You see, when I was coming down the hall I heard what I thought were voices coming out of those rooms, and crying, and I was afraid that the little girl was having more trouble with her ear. That’s why I started to go in without knocking, but after I’d been standing there a minute, I heard that it was Miss Page crying herself, fit to break her heart. I never heard anyone cry so dreadful in all my life. It fairly gave me a turn, but the moment I knocked there wasn’t a sound, and then after a minute she called out that she wouldn’t need me, just as I told you, sir. So I went on my way, of course, though I was still a bit worried. She’d been crying so dreadful, poor thing, that I was afraid she would be right down sick.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, quite so. Very much upset, as though she’d been through an agitating experience?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, indeed, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You were mistaken about the voices weren’t you? It was just Miss Page crying?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir⁠—I thought I heard voices, too.” The soft voice was barely audible.</p>
			<p>“The little girl’s?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. It sounded⁠—it sounded like <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor stared at her blankly.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You could hear what he was saying?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, I couldn’t; it stopped as soon as I tried the door. I thought he was talking to the little girl.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr continued to contemplate her blankly for a moment, and then, with an eloquent shrug of the shoulders, dismissed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives, Miss Page, and the locked door for more fruitful pastures.</p>
			<p>“Now, Miss Roberts, your duties included the care of your mistress’s wardrobe, did they not?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You are quite familiar with all its contents?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite.”</p>
			<p>“Will you be good enough to tell us if it contains today all the articles that it contained on the nineteenth of June, 1926?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, it doesn’t. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives gives away a lot of her things at the end of every season. We sent a big box off to a sick cousin she has in Arizona, and another to some young ladies in Delaware, and another to the⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Never mind about the things that you sent at the end of the season. Did you send anything at about the time of the murder⁠—within a few weeks of it, say?”</p>
			<p>The roses in Miss Roberts’s cheeks faded abruptly, and the candid eyes fled precipitately to the chair where Susan Ives sat, playing idly with the crystal clasp of her brown suede bag. At the warm, friendly, reassuring little smile that she found waiting for her, Miss Roberts apparently found heart of grace. “Yes, sir, we did,” she said steadily.</p>
			<p>“On what date, please?”</p>
			<p>“On the twentieth of June.”</p>
			<p>The courtroom drew in its breath sharply⁠—a little sigh for its lost ease⁠—and moved forward the inch that separated suspense from polite attention.</p>
			<p>“To whom was the package sent?”</p>
			<p>“It was sent to the Salvation Army.”</p>
			<p>“What was in it?”</p>
			<p>“Well, there were two old sweaters and a swiss dress that had shrunk quite small, and a wrapper, and some blouses and a coat.”</p>
			<p>“What kind of a coat, Miss Roberts?”</p>
			<p>“A light flannel coat⁠—a kind of sports coat, you might call it,” said Miss Roberts clearly; but those who craned forward sharply enough could see the knuckles whiten on the small, square, capable hands.</p>
			<p>“Cream-coloured flannel?”</p>
			<p>“Well, more of a biscuit, I’d call it,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s maid judicially.</p>
			<p>“The coat that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives had been wearing the evening before, wasn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“I believe it was, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Did you see the condition of this coat before you packed it, Miss Roberts?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, I didn’t. It wasn’t I that packed it.”</p>
			<p>“Not you? Who did pack it?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives packed it herself.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, I see.” In that sudden white light of triumph the prosecutor’s face was almost beautiful⁠—a cruel and sinister beauty, such as might have lighted the face of the youngest Spanish Inquisitionist as the stray shot of a question went straight to the enemy’s heart. “It was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives who packed it. How did it come into your hands, Miss Roberts?”</p>
			<p>“The package, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly, the package.”</p>
			<p>“It was this way, sir: A little before eight Sunday morning <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s bell rang and I went down to her room. She was all dressed for church, and there was a big box on her bed. She said, ‘I rang for you before, Roberts, but you were probably at breakfast. Take this down to MacDonald and tell him to mail it when he gets the papers. The post office closes at half-past nine.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Was that all that she said?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, sir. She asked me for some fresh gloves, and then she said over her shoulder like as she was going out, ‘It’s those things that I was getting together for the Salvation Army. I put in the coat I was wearing last night too. I absolutely ruined it with some automobile grease on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy’s car.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Nothing more?”</p>
			<p>“Well, then I said, ‘Oh, madam, couldn’t it be cleaned?’ And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives said, ‘It isn’t worth cleaning; this is the third year I’ve had it.’ Then she went out, sir, and I took it down and gave it to MacDonald.”</p>
			<p>“Was it addressed?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“How?”</p>
			<p>“Just Salvation Army Headquarters, New York, <abbr epub:type="z3998:place">NY</abbr>.”</p>
			<p>“No address in the corner as to whom it came from?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, sir. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives never⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Be good enough to confine yourself to the question. You are not aware, yourself, of the exact nature of these stains, are you, Miss Roberts?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, I am,” said the pink-cheeked Miss Roberts firmly. “They were grease stains.”</p>
			<p>“What?” The prosecutor’s startled voice skipped half an octave. “Didn’t you distinctly tell me that you didn’t see this coat?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, no more I did. It was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives that told me they were grease stains.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor indulged in a brief bark of mirth that indicated more relief than amusement. “Then, as I say, you are unable to tell us of your own knowledge?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir,” replied Miss Roberts, a trifle pinker and a trifle firmer. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives told me that those stains were grease stains, so I’m certainly able to say of my own knowledge that it was absolutely true if she said so.”</p>
			<p>There was something in the soft, sturdy voice that made the grimy courtroom a pleasanter place. Sue Ives’s careless serenity flashed suddenly to that of a delighted child; Stephen Bellamy’s fine, grave face warmed and lightened; the shadows lifted for a moment from Pat Ives’s haunted eyes; there was a grateful murmur from the press, a friendly stir in the jury. The quiet-eyed, soft-voiced, stubborn little Miss Roberts was undoubtedly the heroine of the moment.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, however, was obviously unmoved by this exhibition of devotion and loyalty. He permitted more than a trace of annoyance to penetrate his clear, metallic voice. “That’s all very pretty and touching, naturally, Miss Roberts, but from a crudely legal standpoint we are forced to realize that your statement as to the nature of the stains has no weight whatever. It is a fact, is it not, that you never laid eyes on the stained coat that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives sent out of her house within a few hours of the time that this murder was committed?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, that is a fact.”</p>
			<p>“No further questions, Miss Roberts. Cross-examine.”</p>
			<p>“It is a fact, too, that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives frequently sent packages in just this way, isn’t it, Miss Roberts?” inquired <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert mellifluously.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, indeed, she did⁠—often and often.”</p>
			<p>“Was she in the habit of putting her address on packages sent to charitable institutions?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. She didn’t want to be thanked for her charities⁠—not ever.”</p>
			<p>“Precisely. That’s all, Miss Roberts⁠—thanks.”</p>
			<p>“Call Orsini.”</p>
			<p>“Loo-weegee Aw-see-nee!”</p>
			<p>Luigi Orsini glanced darkly at Ben Potts as he mounted the witness stand, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Potts returned the glance with Nordic severity.</p>
			<p>“What was your occupation on June 19, 1926, Orsini?”</p>
			<p>“I work for Miz’ Bell’my.”</p>
			<p>“In what capacity?”</p>
			<p>“What you say?”</p>
			<p>“What was your job?”</p>
			<p>“I am what you call handy⁠—do everything there is to do.”</p>
			<p>The spacious gesture implied Gargantuan labours and superhuman abilities. A small, thick, stocky individual, swarthy and pompadoured, with lustrous eyes, a glittering smile, and a magnificent barytone voice, he suggested without any effort whatever infinite possibilities in the role of either tragedian or comedian. The redoubtable Farr eyed him with a trace of well-justified apprehension.</p>
			<p>“Well, suppose you tell us what your principal activities were on the nineteenth of June.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, well, that day me, I am very active, like per usual. At six o’clock I arise and after some small breakfast I take extra-fine strong wire and some very long sticks⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No, no, you can skip all that. You heard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell’s testimony, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“For sure I hear that testimony.”</p>
			<p>“Was it correct that he stopped around noon at the Bellamys’ and asked for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“All correct, OK”</p>
			<p>“Did he tell you where he was going?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sair, he then he say he get her at that cottage.”</p>
			<p>“Nothing else?”</p>
			<p>“Not one other thing else.”</p>
			<p>“You didn’t see him again?”</p>
			<p>“No, no; I do not see him again evair.”</p>
			<p>“When did you last see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“It is about eight in the evening⁠—maybe five minute before, maybe five minute after.”</p>
			<p>“How do you fix the time?”</p>
			<p>“I have look at my watch⁠—this watch you now see, which is a good instrument of entirely pure silver, but not always faithful.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor waved away the bulky shining object dangled enticingly before his eyes with a gesture of almost ferocious impatience. “Never mind about that. Why did you consult your watch?”</p>
			<p>The owner of the magnificent but unfaithful instrument swelled darkly for a moment, but continued to dangle his treasure. “That you shall hear⁠—patience. I produce the instrument at this time so that you note that while the clock over the door it say twenty minutes before the hour, this watch it say nine minute⁠—or maybe eight. You judge for yourself. It is without a doubt eccentric. But on that night still I have consult it to see if I go to New York at eight-twenty. I wait to decide still when I see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bell’my run down the front steps and come down to the gate where I stand.”</p>
			<p>“Did she speak to you?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, positive. She ask, ‘What, Luigi, you do not go to New York?’ ”</p>
			<p>“How did she know that you were going to New York?”</p>
			<p>“Because already before dinner I have ask permission from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my if I can go to New York that evening to see a young lady from Milan that I think perhaps I marry, maybe. Miz’ Bell’my she is in the next room and she laugh and call out, ‘You tell Marietta that if she get you, one day she will find herself marry to the President of these United State’.’ I excuse myself for what may seem like a boast, but those are the words she use.”</p>
			<p>And suddenly, as though he found the memory of that gay, mocking young voice floating across the heavy air of the courtroom more unbearable than all the blood and shame and horror that had invaded it, Stephen Bellamy’s face twisted to a tortured grimace and he lifted an unsteady hand to lowered eyes.</p>
			<p>“Look!” came a penetrating whisper. “He’s crying, ain’t he? Ain’t he, Gertie?”</p>
			<p>And the redheaded girl lowered her own eyes swiftly, a shamed and guilty flush reaching to the roots of her hair. How ugly, how contemptible, one’s thoughts could sound in words!</p>
			<p>“What reply did you make to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“I tell to her that I think maybe I had better not go, as that afternoon I have invest my money in a small game of chance with the gardener next door and the investment it have prove’ unsound. I say that how if I go to New York to see my young lady, it is likely that I must request of her the money to return back to Rosemont⁠—and me, who am proud, I find that indelicate. So Miz’ Bell’my she laugh out and look quick in the little bag that she carry and give me three dollar’⁠—to make the course of true love run more smooth, she say⁠—and then she call back over her shoulder, ‘Better hurry, Luigi, or you miss that train.’ So I hurry, but all the same I miss it⁠—by two small minute, because, chiefly, this watch he is too eccentric.”</p>
			<p>In spite of its eccentricity, he returned it tenderly to his vest pocket, after a final flip in the direction of the harassed Farr and the enraptured audience.</p>
			<p>“Did you notice anything else in the bag when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy opened it?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, positive. The eyes of Luigi they miss nothing what there is to see. All things they observe. In that bag of Miz’ Bell’my there are stuff, stuff in two, three letters⁠—I dunno for sure⁠—maybe four. But they make that small little bag bulge out so⁠—very tight, like that.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini’s eloquent hands sketched complete rotundity.</p>
			<p>“You never saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy again?”</p>
			<p>“Not evair⁠—no, no more⁠—not evair.”</p>
			<p>For a moment the warm blood under the swarthy Southern skin seemed to run more slowly and coldly; but after a hasty glance at the safe, reassuring autumn sunlight slanting across the crowded room, the colour flowed boldly back to cheek and lip.</p>
			<p>“You say that you missed the train to New York. What did you do then?”</p>
			<p>“Then I curse myself good all up and down for a fool that is a fool all right, and I go back to my room in the garage and get into my bed and begin to read a story in a magazine that call itself <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Honest Confession</i> about a bride what⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Never mind what you were reading. Did you notice anything unusual on your return?”</p>
			<p>“Well, maybe you don’t call it nothing unusual, but I notice that the car of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my it is no longer in the garage. That make me surprise’ for a minute, because I have heard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my tell Nellie, the house girl, that it is all right for her to go home early to her mother, where she sleep, because he will be there to answer the telephone if it should ring. But all the same, I go on to bed. I just think he change his mind, maybe.”</p>
			<p>“What time did you get back to the garage?”</p>
			<p>“At twenty-two minutes before nine I am in my room. That I verify by the alarm clock that repose on the top of my bureau, and which is of an entire reliability; I note it expressly, because I am enrage’ that I have miss’ that train by so small an amount.”</p>
			<p>“Orsini, do you know what kind of tires <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy was using on his car?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sair, that, too, I know. There are three old tires of what they call Royal Cord make⁠—two on back and one on front. On the left front one is a good new Silvertown Cord, what I help him to change about a month before all these things have happen. For spare, he carry a all new Ajax. And that is all there is.”</p>
			<p>“You’re perfectly sure that the Ajax wasn’t on?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, surest thing.”</p>
			<p>“When did you last see the car?”</p>
			<p>“When I go down to the gate, round half-past seven.”</p>
			<p>“And the Ajax was still on as a spare?”</p>
			<p>“That’s what.”</p>
			<p>“Did you see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy again on the evening of the nineteenth?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that evening I have seen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my again.”</p>
			<p>“At what time?”</p>
			<p>“At five before ten.”</p>
			<p>“Was he alone?”</p>
			<p>“No; with him there was a lady.”</p>
			<p>“Did you recognize her?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sair, I have recognize’ her.”</p>
			<p>“Who was this lady, Orsini?”</p>
			<p>“This lady, sair, was Miz’ Patrick Ives.”</p>
			<p>At those words, pronounced with exactly their proper dramatic inflection by that lover of the drama, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Luigi Orsini, every head in the courtroom pivoted to the spot where <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives sat with the autumn sun warming her hair to something better than gold. And quite oblivious to the ominous inquiry in those straining eyes, she turned toward Stephen Bellamy, meeting his startled eyes with a small, rueful smile, lifted brows and a little shake of the head that came as near to saying “I told you so” as good sportsmanship permitted.</p>
			<p>“You are quite positive of that?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, without one single doubt.”</p>
			<p>“How were you able to identify her?”</p>
			<p>“Because I hear her voice, as clear as I hear you, and I see her clear as I see you too.”</p>
			<p>“How were you able to do that?”</p>
			<p>“By the lights of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my’s car, when she get out and look up at my window, where I stand and look out.”</p>
			<p>“Tell us just how you came to be standing there looking out, please.”</p>
			<p>“Well, after a while, I began to get sleepy over that magazine, and I look at the clock and it say ten minutes to ten, and I think, ‘Luigi, my fine fellow, tomorrow you rise at six to do the work that lies before you, and at present it is well that you should sleep.’ So I arise to turn out the light, which switch is by the window, and just when I get there to do that I hear a auto car turn in at the gate. I think, ‘Ah-ha! There now comes <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my.’ And then I look out of that window, for I am surprise’. It is the habit of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my to put away that car so soon as he come in, but this time he don’t do that. He stop in front of the house and he help out a lady. She stand there looking up at my window, and I see her clear like it is day, but it is all dark inside, so she can see nothing. Then she say, ‘I still could swear that I have seen a light,’ and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my he say, ‘Sue, don’t let this get you. I tell you that there is no one here⁠—I saw him headed for the train. Maybe perhaps it was the shine from our own lamps what you see. Come on.’ And she say, ‘Maybe; but I could swear⁠—’ And then I don’t hear any more, because they go into the house, and me, I stand there like one paralyze’, because always I have believe <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my to be a man of honour who love⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—never mind that. Did you see them come out?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that I see, too. In five-ten minutes they come out and get quick into the car, and drive away without they say one word. They start off very fast, so that the car it jump.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know at what time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy returned that night?”</p>
			<p>“No; because then I wake only half up from sleep when I hear him drive that car into the garage, and I do not turn to look at the clock.”</p>
			<p>“It was some time later?”</p>
			<p>“Some time⁠—yes. But whether one hour⁠—three hours⁠—five hours, that I cannot say. What I am not sure of like my life, that I do not say.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly; very commendable. That’s all, thanks. Cross-examine.”</p>
			<p>Orsini wheeled his lustrous orbs in the direction of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert, whose ruddy countenance had assumed an expression of intense inhospitality, though he managed to inject an ominous suavity into his ample voice. “With those vigilant and all-seeing eyes of yours, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>⁠—er⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini, were you able to note the garments that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy was wearing when she went past you at the gate?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, positive. A white dress, all fluffy, and a black cape, quite thin, so that almost you see through it⁠—not quite, maybe, but almost.”</p>
			<p>“Any hat?”</p>
			<p>“On the head a small black scarf that she have wrap’ also around her neck, twice or mebbe three time. The eyes of Luigi⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Exactly. Could you see whether she had on her jewels?”</p>
			<p>“Positive. Always like that in the evening, moreover, she wear her jewels.”</p>
			<p>“You noticed what they were?”</p>
			<p>“Same like always⁠—same necklace out of pearls, same rings, diamond and sapphire, two on one hand, one the other⁠—I see them when she open that bag.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy was a person of moderate means, wasn’t he, as far as you know?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, everybody what there is around here knows he wasn’t no John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Rockfeller, I guess.”</p>
			<p>“Do you believe that the stones were genuine?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini, thus appealed to as an expert, waxed eloquent and expansive. “Oh, positive. That I know for one absolute sure thing.”</p>
			<p>“Tell us just how, won’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Well, that house girl, Nellie, one night she tell me that Miz’ Bell’my have left one of her rings at the club where she wash her hands, but that Miz’ Bell’my just laugh and say she should worry herself, because all those rings and her pearls they are insure big, and if she lose those, she go out and buy herself a new house and a auto car, and maybe a police dog too.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Had it ever occurred to you that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy was using the cottage at Orchards for other purposes than piano practice, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini?”</p>
			<p>Orsini’s smile flashed so generously that it revealed three really extravagant gold fillings. “Well, me, I don’t miss many things, maybe you guess. After she get that key three-four times, I think to myself, ‘Luigi, it is funny thing that nevair she give you back that key until the day after, and always those evenings she go out by herself⁠—most generally when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bell’my he stay in town to work.’ So one of those nights when she ask for that key I permit myself to take a small little stroll up the road in Orchards, and sure thing, there is a light in that cottage and a auto car outside the door. Sufficient! I look no further. Me, I am a man of the world, you comprehend.”</p>
			<p>“Obviously.”</p>
			<p>“Just a moment, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert,” interrupted Judge Carver. “Is your cross-examination going to take some time?”</p>
			<p>“Quite a time, I believe, Your Honour.”</p>
			<p>“Then I think it best that we adjourn for the noon recess, as it is already after twelve. The Court stands adjourned until one-ten.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Well, here’s where we get our comic relief,” said the reporter with unction. “That son of sunny Italy is going to give us an enviable imitation of a three-ringed circus and a bag of monkeys before he and Lambert get through with each other, or I miss my guess. He’s got a look in his eye that is worth the price of admission alone. What’s your mature opinion of him?”</p>
			<p>“I think that he’s beguiling,” said the redheaded girl somewhat listlessly. Little shadows were under her gray eyes, and she curled small limp paws about a neglected notebook. Something in the drooping shoulders under the efficient jacket suggested an exhausted baby in need of a crib and a bottle of hot milk and a firm and friendly tucking in. She made a halfhearted effort to overtake an enormous yawn that was about to engulf her, and then surrendered plaintively.</p>
			<p>“Bored?” inquired the real reporter, his countenance illuminated by an expression of agreeable surprise.</p>
			<p>“Bored?” cried the lady beside him in a voice at once scornful and outraged. “Bored? I’m half destroyed with excitement. I can’t sleep anymore. I go back to the boarding house every night and sit up in front of a gas stove with an orange-and-magenta comforter over my shoulders that ought to warm the dead, writing up my notes until all hours; and then I put a purple comforter over my knees and a muffler over my nose, and get an apple and sit there alternately gnawing the apple and my fingers and trying to work out who did it until even the cats stop singing under my window and the sky begins to get that nice, appealing slate colour that’s so prettily referred to as dawn. And even then I don’t know who did it.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you, indeed?” inquired the reporter severely, looking irritated and anxious. “Haven’t you any sense at all, you little idiot? Listen, I know a place just two blocks down where you can get some fairly decent hot soup. You go and drink about a quart of it and then trot along home and turn in, and I’ll do your notes for you tonight so well that your boss will double your salary in the morning⁠—and if you’re very good and sleep eighteen hours, I may tell you who did the murder.”</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl, who had shuddered fastidiously at the offer of fairly decent soup, eyed him ungratefully as she extracted a packet of salted peanuts from the capacious pouch that served her as handbag, commissary, and dressing table.</p>
			<p>“Thank you kindly,” she said. “My boss wrote me two special-delivery letters yesterday to say that I was doing far the best stuff that was coming up out of Redfield⁠—far. He said that the three clippings that I sent him of your stuff showed promise⁠—he did, honestly.⁠ ⁠… I think that soup’s terrible, and this is the first time in my life that I’ve been able to stay up as late as I pleased without anyone sending me to bed. I’m mad about it.⁠ ⁠… Have some peanuts?”</p>
			<p>“No, thanks,” said the reporter, rising abruptly. “Anything I can get you outside?”</p>
			<p>“You’re cross!” wailed the redheaded girl, her eyes round with panic and contrition. “You are⁠—you are⁠—you’re absolutely furious. Wait, please⁠—please, or I’ll hang on to your coattails and make a scene. The real reason I don’t go out and get soup is because I don’t dare. If I went away even for a minute, something might happen, and then I wouldn’t ever sleep again. Someone might get my seat⁠—didn’t you see that fat, sinful-looking old lady who got the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Gazette</i> girl’s place yesterday? She wouldn’t go even when three officers and the sheriff told her she had to, and the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Gazette</i> girl had to sit on a stool in the gallery, and she said she had such a rushing of rage in her ears that she couldn’t hear anything that anyone said all afternoon. So, you see⁠—And I would like a ham sandwich and I think that you write better than Conrad, and I apologize, and if you’ll tell me who did the murder, I’ll tell you. And please hurry, because I hope you won’t be gone long.”</p>
			<p>“You’re a nice little nut,” said the reporter, and he beamed on her forgivingly, “and I like you. I like the way your nose turns up and your mouth turns down, and I like that funny little hat you wear.⁠ ⁠… I’ll make it in two jumps. Watch me!”</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl watched him obediently, her face pink and her eyes bright under the funny little hat. When the door opened to let him out, she plunged her eyes apprehensively for a moment into the silent, pushing, heaving mob behind the policeman’s broad blue shoulders, shivered, and turned them resolutely away.</p>
			<p>“If I were convicted of murder tomorrow,” thought the redheaded girl passionately, “they’d shove just like that to see me hanged. Ugh! What’s the matter with us?”</p>
			<p>She eyed with an expression of profound distaste the plump lady just beyond her, conscientiously eating stuffed eggs out of a shoe box. So smug, so virtuous, so pompadoured and lynx-eyed⁠—Her eyes moved hastily on to the pair of giggling flappers exchanging powder puffs and anecdotes over a box of maple caramels; on to the round-shouldered youth with the unattractive complexion and unpleasant tie; on to the pretty thing with overflushed cheeks and overbright eyes above her sable scarf and beneath her Paris hat. The redheaded girl wrenched her eyes back to the empty space where there sat, tranquil and aloof, the memory of the prisoner at the bar.</p>
			<p>It was good to be able to forget those hot, hungry, cruel faces, so sleek and safe and triumphant, and to remember that other face under the shadow of the small felt hat, cool and controlled and gay⁠—yes, gay, for all the shadows that beset it. Only⁠—what thoughts were weaving behind that bright brow, those steady lips? Thoughts of terror, of remorse, of bitterness and horror and despair? If you were strong enough to strike down a laughing girl who barred your path, you would be strong enough to keep your lips steady, wouldn’t you?</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl stared about her wildly; she felt suddenly small and cold and terrified. Where was the reporter? What a long time⁠—Oh, someone had opened a window. It was only the wind of autumn that was blowing so cold then, not the wind of death. What was it those little newsboys were calling outside, yelping like puppies in the gray square?</p>
			<p>“Extra, Extra! All about the mysterious⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the reporter’s voice at her elbow, tense with some suppressed excitement, “this is the time he did it! No enterprising Filipino and housemaid around this time. Read that and weep!”</p>
			<p>Across the flimsy sheet of the Redfield <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Home News</i> it ran in letters three inches high: Ex-fiancé of Murdered Girl Blows Out Brains. Prominent Clubman Found Dead in Garden at Eleven Forty-five This Morning.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got a peach of a story started over the wires this minute,” said the reporter exultantly. “Here, boy, rush this stuff and beat it back for more. I couldn’t get your sandwich.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the redheaded girl in a small awed voice⁠—“well, then, that means that he did it himself, doesn’t it? That means that he couldn’t stand it any longer because he killed her, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Or it means that he good and damn well knew that Susan Ives did it,” muttered the reporter, shaken from Olympian calm to frenzied activity. “Here, boy! Boy! Hi, you, rush this⁠—and take off the ear muffs. It’s a hundred-to-one bet that he knew that Sue’d done it, and that he’d as good as put the knife in her hand by telling her where, when, and why it should be managed.⁠ ⁠… Here, boy!”</p>
			<p>“He didn’t!” said the redheaded girl fiercely. “He didn’t know it. How could⁠—”</p>
			<p>“The Court!” sang Ben Potts.</p>
			<p>“How could he know whether she⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Silence!” intoned Ben reprovingly.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert were both heading purposefully for the witness box.</p>
			<p>“Now you’ve just told us, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini, that you were able to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s face when you looked down from your window in the garage as clearly as you see mine. Can you give us an idea of the approximate distance from the garage to the house?”</p>
			<p>“Positive. The distance from the middle of the garage door to the middle of the front porch step, it is”⁠—he glanced earnestly at a small slip of paper hitherto concealed in one massive paw, and divulged a portion of its contents to his astounded interrogator⁠—“it is forty-seven feet five inches and one half inch.”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini contemplated with pardonable gratification the unfeigned stupor that adorned the massive countenance now thrust incredulously forward. “Also I can now tell you the space between the front gate and the door⁠—one hunnerd forty-three feet and a quarter of a inch,” he announced rapidly and benevolently. “Also from the fence out to the road⁠—eleven feet nine inch and a⁠—”</p>
			<p>Judge Carver’s gavel fell with a crash over the enraptured roar that swept the courtroom. “One more demonstration of this kind and I clear the Court. This is a trial for murder, not a burlesque performance. You, sir, answer the questions that are put to you, when they are put. What’s that object in your hand?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini dangled the limp yellow article hopefully under the judge’s fine nose. “The instrument with which I make the measure,” he explained, all modest pride. “What you call a measure of tape. The card on which I make the notes as well.”</p>
			<p>Judge Carver schooled his momentarily shaken countenance to its customary rigidity and turned a lion tamer’s eye on the smothered hilarity of the press. The demoralized Lambert pulled himself together with a mighty effort; a junior counsel emitted a convulsive snort; only <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr remained entirely unmoved. Pensive, nonchalant and mildly sardonic, he bestowed a perfunctory glance on the measure of tape and returned to a critical perusal of some notes of his own, which he had been studying intently since he had surrendered his witness to his adversary. The adversary, his eyes still bulging, returned once more to the charge.</p>
			<p>“May I ask you what caused you to burden yourself with this invaluable mass of information?”</p>
			<p>“Surest thing you may ask. I do it because me, I am well familiar with the questions what all smart high-grade lawyers put when in the court⁠—like, could you then tell us how high were those steps, and how many were those minutes, and how far were those walls⁠—all things like that they like to go and ask, every time, sure like shooting.”</p>
			<p>“I see. A careful student of our little eccentricities. How has it happened that your crowded life has afforded you the leisure to make so exhaustive a study of our habits?”</p>
			<p>“Once again, more slow?” suggested the student affably.</p>
			<p>“How have you happened to become so familiar with court life?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, me, I am not so familiar with it as that. Once⁠—twice⁠—that is enough for one who know how to use his eyes and ear⁠—more is not necessary.”</p>
			<p>“No, as you say, once or twice ought to be enough; it’s a pity that you’ve found it necessary to extend your experience. Orsini, have you ever been in jail?”</p>
			<p>“Who⁠—me?” The glittering smile with which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini was in the habit of decorating his periods was not completely withdrawn, but it became slightly more reticent. His lambent eyes roved reproachfully in the direction of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, who seemed more absorbed than ever in his notes. “In what kind of a jail you mean?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert looked obviously disconcerted. “I mean jail⁠—any kind of a jail.”</p>
			<p>“Was it up on a hill, perhaps, this jail?” inquired his victim helpfully.</p>
			<p>“On a hill? What’s that got to do with it? How should I know whether it was on a hill?”</p>
			<p>“A high hill, mebbe, with trees all about it?” Once more Orsini’s hands were eloquent.</p>
			<p>“All right, all right, were you ever in a jail on a hill with trees around it?”</p>
			<p>Orsini gazed blandly into the irate and contemptuous countenance thrust toward him. “No, sair,” he replied regretfully. “If that jail was up on a hill with trees around it, then I was not in that jail.”</p>
			<p>Once more the courtroom, reckless of the gavel, yielded to helpless and hilarious uproar, and for this time they were spared. One look at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s countenance, a full moon in the throes of apoplexy, had undermined even Judge Carver’s iron reserves. The gavel remained idle while he indulged himself in a severe attack of coughing behind a large and protective handkerchief. The redheaded girl was using a more minute one to mop her eyes when she paused, startled and incredulous. Across the courtroom, Patrick and his wife Susan were laughing into each other’s eyes, for one miraculous moment the gay and carefree comrades of old; for one moment⁠—and then, abruptly, memory swept back her lifted veil and they sat staring blankly at the dreadful havoc that lay between them, who had been wont to seek each other in laughter. Slowly, painfully, Sue Ives wrenched her eyes back to their schooled vigilance, and after an interminable breath, Pat Ives turned his haunted ones back to the window, beyond which the sky was still blue. Only in that second’s wait the redheaded girl had seen the dark flush sweep across his pallor, and the hunger in those imploring eyes, frantic and despairing as those of a small boy who had watched a beloved hand slam a heavy door in his face.</p>
			<p>“Why, he loves her!” thought the redheaded girl. “He loves her dreadfully!” Those few scattered seconds when laughter and hope and despair had swept across a court⁠—how long⁠—how long they seemed! And yet they would have scantily sufficed to turn a pretty phrase or a platitude on the weather. They had just barely served to give the portly Lambert time to recover his breath, his voice, and his venom, all three of which he was now proceeding to utilize simultaneously and vigorously.</p>
			<p>“I see, I see. You’re particular about your jails⁠—like them in valleys, do you? Now be good enough to answer my question without any further trifling.”</p>
			<p>“What question is that?”</p>
			<p>“Have you ever been in jail?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini’s expression became faintly tinged with caution, but its affability did not diminish. “When?” he inquired impartially.</p>
			<p>“When? Any time! Will⁠—you⁠—answer⁠—my⁠—question?”</p>
			<p>Thus rudely adjured, his victim yielded to the inevitable with philosophy, humour, and grace. “Not any time⁠—no, no! That is too exaggerate’. But sometimes⁠—yes⁠—I do not deny that sometimes I have been in jail.”</p>
			<p>Under the eyes of the entranced spectators, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s rosy jowls darkened to a fine, deep, full-bodied maroon. “You don’t deny it, hey? Well, that’s very magnanimous and gratifying⁠—very gratifying indeed. Now will you continue to gratify us by telling us just why you went to jail?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini dismissed his penal career with an eloquent shrug. “Ah, well, for what thing do you not go to jail in these days? If you do not have money to pay for fine, it is jail for you! You drink beer what is two and three quarter, you shake up some dice where you think nobody care, you drive nine and one-half mile over a bridge where it say eight and one half⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That will do, Orsini. In 1911 did you or did you not serve eight months in jail for stealing some rings from a hotel room?”</p>
			<p>“Ah, that⁠—that is one dirty lie⁠—one dirty plant is put on me! I get that⁠—”</p>
			<p>From under the swarthy skin of the erstwhile suave citizen of the world there leaped, sallow with fury, livid with fear, the Calabrian peasant, ugly and vengeful, chattering with incoherent rage. Lambert eyed him with profound satisfaction.</p>
			<p>“Yes, yes⁠—naturally. It always is. Very unfortunate; our jails are crowded with these errors. It’s true, too, isn’t it, Orsini, that less than three weeks before the murder you told <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy that the reason you hadn’t asked your little Milanese friend to marry you was that you couldn’t afford to buy her an engagement ring?”</p>
			<p>“You⁠—you⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Just one moment, Orsini.” The prosecutor’s low voice cut sharply across the thick, violent stammering. “Don’t answer that question.⁠ ⁠… Your Honour, I once more respectfully inquire as to whether this is the trial of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives or of my witnesses, individually and en masse?”</p>
			<p>“And the Court has told you once before that it does not reply to purely rhetorical questions, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr. You are perfectly aware as to whose trial this is, and while the Court is inclined to agree as to the impropriety of the last question, it does not believe that it is in error in stating that it is some time since you have seen fit to object to any of the questions put by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert to your witness.”</p>
			<p>“Your Honour is quite correct. It being my profound conviction that I have an absolutely unshakable case, I have studiously refrained from injecting the usual note of acrimonious bickering into these proceedings that is supposed to be the legal prerogative. This kind of thing causes me profoundly to regret my forbearance, I may state. About two out of three witnesses that I’ve put on the stand have been practically accused of committing or abetting this murder. Whether they’re all supposed to be in one gigantic conspiracy or to have played lone hands is still a trifle hazy, but there’s no doubt whatever about the implications. Miss Page, Miss Cordier, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini⁠—it’ll be getting around to me in a minute.”</p>
			<p>“I object to this, Your Honour, I object!” The choked and impassioned voice of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dudley Lambert went down before the clear, metallic clang of the prosecutor’s, roused at last from lethargy.</p>
			<p>“And I object, too⁠—I object to a great many things! I object to the appalling gravity of a trial for murder being turned into a farce by the kind of thing that’s been going on here this morning. I’m entirely serious in saying that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert might just as well select me as a target for his insinuations. I used to live in Rosemont. I have a good sharp pocket knife⁠—my wife hasn’t a sapphire ring to her name⁠—I’ve been arrested three times⁠—twice for exceeding a speed limit of twenty-two miles an hour and once for trying to reason with a traffic cop who had delusions of grandeur and a⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That will do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr.” There was a highly peremptory note in Judge Carver’s voice. “The Court has exercised possibly undue liberality in permitting you to extend your observations on this point, because it seemed well taken. It does not believe that you will gain anything by further elaboration. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert your last question is overruled. Have you any further ones to put to the witness?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert, looking a striking combination of a cross baby and a bulldog, did not take these observations kindly. “Am I denied the opportunity of attacking the credibility of the extraordinary collection of individuals that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr chooses to produce as witnesses?”</p>
			<p>“You are not. In what way does your inquiry as to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini’s inability to provide a young woman with an engagement ring purport to attack his credibility?”</p>
			<p>“It purports to show that Orsini had a distinct motive for robbery and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Precisely. And precisely for that reason, since <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Orsini is not on trial here, the Court considers the question irrelevant and incompetent, as well as improper. Have you any further ones to put?”</p>
			<p>“No.” The rage that was consuming the unchastened <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert choked his utterance and bulged his eyes. “No further questions. May I have an exception from Your Honour’s ruling?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>Orsini, stepping briskly down from the witness box, lingered long enough to bestow on his late inquisitor a glance in which knives flashed and blood flowed freely⁠—a glance which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert, goaded by frustrated rage, returned with interest. The violence remained purely ocular, however, and the obviously disappointed spectators began to crawl laboriously to their feet.</p>
			<p>“Call for Turner.”</p>
			<p>“Joseph Turner!”</p>
			<p>A bright-eyed, brown-faced, friendly-looking boy swung alertly into the box and fired a pair of earnest young eyes on the prosecutor.</p>
			<p>“What was your occupation on June nineteenth of this year, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Turner?”</p>
			<p>“I was bus driver over the Perrytown route.”</p>
			<p>“Still are?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir; driving for the same outfit, but over a new route⁠—Redfield to Glenvale.”</p>
			<p>“Ever see these before, Turner?”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor lifted a black chiffon cape and lace scarf from the pasteboard box beside him and extended them casually toward the witness.</p>
			<p>The boy eyed them soberly. “Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“When?”</p>
			<p>“Two or three times, sir; the last time was the night of the nineteenth of June.”</p>
			<p>“At what time?”</p>
			<p>“At about eight-thirty-five.”</p>
			<p>“Where did you pick <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy up?”</p>
			<p>“At about a quarter of a mile beyond her house, toward the club. There’s a bus stop there, and she stepped out from some deep shadows at the side of the road and signalled me to stop.”</p>
			<p>“Did you know <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy by name at that time?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir; I found out later. That’s when I learned where her house was too.”</p>
			<p>“Was yours the first bus that she could have caught?”</p>
			<p>“If she missed the eight o’clock bus. Mine was the next.”</p>
			<p>“Did anything particularly draw your attention to her?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. She had her face all muffled up in her veil, the way she always did, but I specially noticed her slippers. They were awfully pretty shiny silver slippers, and when I let her out at the corner before Orchards it was sort of muddy, and I thought they sure were foolish little things to walk in, but that it was a terrible pity to spoil ’em like that.”</p>
			<p>“How long did it take you to cover the distance between the point from which you picked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy up to the point at which you set her down?”</p>
			<p>“About eight minutes, I should say. It’s a little over two miles⁠—nearer two and a half, I guess.”</p>
			<p>“Did she seem in a hurry?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, she surely did; when she got out at the Orchards corner she started off almost at a run. I pretty nearly called to her to look out or she’d trip herself, but then I decided that it wasn’t none of my business, and of course it wasn’t.”</p>
			<p>“How do you fix the date and the time, Turner?”</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s easy. It was my last trip that night to Perrytown, see? And about the date, next morning I saw how there had been the⁠—a⁠—well, a murder at Orchards, and I remembered her and those silver slippers, and that black cloak, so I dropped in at headquarters to tell ’em what I knew⁠—and it was her all right. They made me go over and look at her, and I won’t forget that in a hurry, either⁠—no, sir.”</p>
			<p>The boy who had driven her to Orchards set his lips hard, turning his eyes resolutely from the little black cloak. “I got ’em to change my route the next day,” he said, his pleasant young voice suddenly shaken.</p>
			<p>“You say that you had driven her over several times before?”</p>
			<p>“Well, two or three times, I guess⁠—all in that last month too. I only had the route a month.”</p>
			<p>“Same time⁠—half-past eight?”</p>
			<p>“That’s right⁠—eight-thirty.”</p>
			<p>“Anything in particular call your attention to her?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I should think she’d have called anyone’s attention to her,” said Joe Turner gently. “Even all wrapped up like that, she was prettier than anything I ever saw in my whole life.” And he added, more gently still: “About twenty times prettier.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor stood silent for a moment, letting the hushed voice evoke once more that radiant image, lace-scarfed, silver-slippered, slipping off into the shadows. “That will be all,” he said. “Cross-examine.”</p>
			<p>“No questions.” Even Lambert’s voice boomed less roundly.</p>
			<p>“Next witness⁠—Sergeant Johnson.”</p>
			<p>“Sergeant Hendrick Johnson!”</p>
			<p>Obedient to Ben Pott’s lyric summons, a young gentleman who looked like a Norse god inappropriately clothed in gray whipcord and a Sam Browne belt strode promptly down the aisle and into the witness box.</p>
			<p>“Sergeant Johnson, what was your occupation on the nineteenth of June, 1926?”</p>
			<p>“State trooper⁠—sergeant.”</p>
			<p>“When did you first receive notification of the murder at Orchards?”</p>
			<p>“At a little before ten on the morning of the twentieth of June. I’d just dropped in at headquarters when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy came in to report what he’d discovered at the cottage.”</p>
			<p>“Please tell us what happened then.”</p>
			<p>“I was detailed to accompany <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dutton, the coroner, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley and another trooper, Dan Wilkins, to the cottage. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dutton took <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley along with him in his roadster, and Wilkins rode with me in my side car. We left headquarters at a little after ten and got to the cottage about quarter past.”</p>
			<p>“Just one moment. Do I understand that the state troopers have headquarters in Rosemont?”</p>
			<p>“That’s correct, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Of which you are in charge?”</p>
			<p>“That’s correct too.”</p>
			<p>“Who had the key to the cottage?”</p>
			<p>“I had it; <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy had turned it over to me. I unlocked the door of the cottage myself, and we all went in together.” The crisp, assured young voice implied that a murder more or less was all in the day’s work to the state police.</p>
			<p>“Did you drive directly up to the cottage door?”</p>
			<p>“No; we left the motorcycle and the car just short of the spot where the little dirt road to the cottage hits the gravel road to the main house and went in on foot, using the grass strip that edges the road.”</p>
			<p>“Any special reason for that?”</p>
			<p>“There certainly was. We didn’t want to mix up footprints and other marks any more than they’d been mixed already.”</p>
			<p>“What happened after you got in the house?”</p>
			<p>“Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dutton and the doctor took charge of the body, and we helped them to move it into the dining room across the hall, after a careful inspection had been made of the position of the body. As a matter of fact, a chalk outline was made of it for further analysis, if necessary, and I took a flash light or so of it so that we’d have that, too, to check up with later. I helped to carry the body to the other room and place it on the table, where it was decided to keep it until the autopsy could be performed. I then locked the door of the parlour so that nothing could be disturbed there, put the key in my pocket, and went out to inspect the marks in the dirt road. I left <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Dutton and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley with the body and sent Wilkins down the road to a gas station to telephone <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy that his wife had been found in the cottage. There was no telephone in the cottage, and the one at the main house had been disconnected.”</p>
			<p>“Sergeant, was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy under suspicion at the time that you telephoned him?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t do the telephoning,” corrected Sergeant Johnson dispassionately; and added more dispassionately still; “Everyone was under suspicion.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy no more than another?”</p>
			<p>“What I said was,” remarked the sergeant with professional reticence, “that everyone was under suspicion.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr met the imperturbable blue eye of his witness with an expression in which irritation and discretion were struggling for supremacy. Discretion triumphed. “Did you discover any tracks on the cottage road?”</p>
			<p>“I surely did.”</p>
			<p>“Footprints?”</p>
			<p>“No; there were some prints, but they were too cut up and blurred to make much out of. What I found were tire tracks.”</p>
			<p>“More than one set?”</p>
			<p>“There were traces of at least four sets, two of them made by the same car.”</p>
			<p>“All equally distinct?”</p>
			<p>“No, they varied considerably. The ground in the cottage road is of a distinctly clayey character, which under the proper conditions would act almost as a cast.”</p>
			<p>“What would be a proper condition?”</p>
			<p>“A damp state following a rainstorm, followed in turn by sufficient fair weather to permit the impression to dry out.”</p>
			<p>“Was such a state in existence?”</p>
			<p>“In one case⁠—yes. There was a storm between one and three on the afternoon of the nineteenth. We’ll call the tire impressions A, B 1 and 2, and C. A showed only very vague traces of a very broad, massive tire on a heavy car. It was almost obliterated, showing that it must have been there either before or during the downpour.”</p>
			<p>“Would those tracks have corresponded to the ones on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell’s car?”</p>
			<p>“There were absolutely no distinguishing tire marks left; it could have been <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farwell’s or any other large car. C had come much later, when the ground had had time to dry out considerably. They were the traces of a medium-sized tire on fairly dry ground. They cut across the tracks left by both A and B.”</p>
			<p>“Could they have been made by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy’s car?”</p>
			<p>“I think that very likely they were. I checked up as well as possible under the conditions, and they corresponded all right.”</p>
			<p>“What about the B impressions?”</p>
			<p>“Both the B impressions were as sharp and distinct as though they had been made in wax. They were made by the same car; judging from the soil conditions, at an interval of an hour or so. We made a series of tests later to see how long it retained moisture.”</p>
			<p>“Of what nature were these impressions, sergeant?”</p>
			<p>“They were narrow tires, such as are used on the smaller, lighter cars,” said Sergeant Johnson, a slight tinge of gravity touching the curtness of his unemotional young voice. “Two of the tires⁠—the ones on the front right and rear left wheels had the tread so worn off that it would be risky to hazard a guess as to their manufacture. The ones on the front left and rear right were brand new, and the impressions in both cases were as clear cut as though you’d carved them. The impressions of B 2 were even deeper than B 1, showing that the car must have stood much longer at one time than at another. We experimented with that, too, but the results weren’t definite enough to report on positively.”</p>
			<p>“What makes you so clear as to which were B 2?”</p>
			<p>“At one spot B 2 was superimposed on B 1 very distinctly.”</p>
			<p>“What were the makes of the rear right and left front tires, sergeant?”</p>
			<p>“The rear right was a new Ajax tire; the front left was a practically new Silvertown cord.”</p>
			<p>“Did they correspond with any of the cars mentioned so far in this case?”</p>
			<p>“They corresponded exactly with the tires on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen Bellamy’s car when we inspected it on the afternoon of June twentieth.”</p>
			<p>“No possibility of error?”</p>
			<p>“Not a chance,” said Sergeant Johnson, succinctly and gravely.</p>
			<p>“Exactly. Had the car been washed at the time you inspected it, Sergeant?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, it had not.”</p>
			<p>“Was there mud on the tires?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, but as it was of much the same character as the mud in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy’s own drive, we attached no particular importance to it.”</p>
			<p>“Was there any grease on the car?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir; we made a very thorough inspection. There was no trace of grease.”</p>
			<p>“Did you find anything else of consequence on the premises, sergeant?”</p>
			<p>“I picked up a kind of lunch box in the shrubbery outside, and in the dining room, on a chair in the corner, I found a black cape⁠—chiffon, I expect you call it⁠—a black lace scarf and a little black silk bag with a shiny clasp that looked like diamonds.”</p>
			<p>“Did you keep a list of the contents of the bag?”</p>
			<p>“I did.”</p>
			<p>“Have you it with you?”</p>
			<p>“I have.”</p>
			<p>“Let’s hear it, please?”</p>
			<p>“ ‘Contents of black purse found in dining room of Thorne Cottage, June 20, 1926,’ ” read Sergeant Johnson briskly, “ ‘One vanity case, pale green enamel; one lipstick, same; one small green linen handkerchief, marked Mimi; leather frame enclosing snapshot of man in tennis clothes, inscribed “For My Mimi from Steve”; sample of blue chiffon with daisies; gold pencil; two theatre-ticket stubs to Vanities, June eighth; three letters, written on white bond paper, signed Pat.’ ”</p>
			<p>“That’s all?”</p>
			<p>“That’s all.”</p>
			<p>“Are these the articles found in the dining room, sergeant?”</p>
			<p>Sergeant Johnson eyed the contents of the box placed before him somewhat cursorily. “Those are the ones.”</p>
			<p>“Just check over the contents of the bag, will you? Nothing missing?”</p>
			<p>“Not a thing.”</p>
			<p>“I ask to have these marked for identification and offer them in evidence, Your Honour.”</p>
			<p>“No objections,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert unexpectedly.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr eyed him incredulously for a moment, as though he doubted the evidence of his ears. Then, rather thoughtfully, he produced another object from the inexhaustible maw of his desk and poised it carefully on the ledge under the sergeant’s nose. It was a box⁠—a nice, shiny tin box, painted a cheerful but decorous maroon⁠—the kind of a box that good little boys carry triumphantly to school, bursting with cookies and apples and peanut-butter sandwiches. It had a neat handle and a large, beautiful, early English initial painted on the top.</p>
			<p>“Did you recognize this, sergeant?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. It’s a lunch box that I picked up back of the shrubbery to the left of the Orchards cottage.”</p>
			<p>“Had it anything in it?”</p>
			<p>“It was about three-quarters empty. There was a ham sandwich and some salted nuts and dates in it, and a couple of doughnuts.”</p>
			<p>“What should you say that the initial on the cover represented?”</p>
			<p>“I shouldn’t say,” remarked the sergeant frankly. “It’s got too many curlicues and doodads. It might be a D, or it might be P, or then again, it mightn’t be either.”</p>
			<p>“So far as you know, it hasn’t been identified as anyone’s property?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“It might have been left there at some previous date?”</p>
			<p>“Well, it might have been; but the food seemed pretty fresh, and there were some new twigs broken off, as though someone had pressed way back into the shrubbery.”</p>
			<p>“I offer this box in evidence, Your Honour, not as of any evidential value, but merely to keep the record straight as to what was turned over by the police.”</p>
			<p>“No objections,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert with that same surprising promptitude, his eyes following the shiny box somewhat hungrily.</p>
			<p>“Very well, sergeant, that’s all. Cross-examine.”</p>
			<p>“Did you examine the portion of the drive to the rear of the cottage, sergeant?” inquired <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert with genial interest.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Find any traces of tires?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“No further questions,” intoned <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert mellifluously.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr turned briskly to an unhappy-looking young man crouching apprehensively in a far corner. “Now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Oliver, I’m going to get you just to read these three letters into the record. I’m unable to do it myself, as I’ve been subjected to considerable eye strain recently.”</p>
			<p>“Do I start with the one on top?” inquired the wretched youth, who looked as though he were about to die at any moment.</p>
			<p>“Start with the first in order of date,” suggested <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr benevolently. “May twenty-first, I think it is. And just raise your voice a little so we’ll all be able to hear you.”</p>
			<p>“Darling, darling,” roared <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Oliver unbelievably, and paused, staring about him wildly, flame coloured far beyond the roots of his russet hair. “May twenty-first,” he added in a suffocated whisper.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Darling, darling:</p>
				<p>I waited there for you for over an hour. I couldn’t believe that you weren’t coming⁠—not after you’d promised. And when I got back and found that hateful, stiff little note⁠—Mimi, how could you? You didn’t mean it to say, “I don’t love you”? It didn’t say that, did it? It sounded so horribly as though that was what it was trying to say that I kept both hands over my ears all the time that I was reading it. I won’t believe it. You do⁠—you must. You’re the only thing that I’ve ever loved in all my life, Mimi; I swear it. You’re the only thing that I’ll ever love, as long as I live.</p>
				<p>You say that you’re frightened; that there’s been talk⁠—oh, darling, what of it? “They say? What say they? Let them say!” They’re a lot of wise, sensible, good-for-nothing idiots, who haven’t anything better to do in the world than wag their heads and their tongues, or else they’re a pack of young fools, frantic with jealousy because they can’t be beautiful like Mimi or lucky like Pat. If their talk gets really dangerous or ugly we can shut them all up in ten seconds by telling them that we’re planning to shake the dust of Rosemont from our heels any minute, and live happy ever after in some “cleaner, greener land.”</p>
				<p>Do you want me to tell them that I’ve asked you fifteen thousand and three times to burn all our bridges and marry me, Mimi? Or didn’t you hear me? You always look then as though you were listening to someone else⁠—someone with a louder voice than mine, saying “Wait⁠—not yet. Think again⁠—you’ll be sorry. Be careful⁠—be careful.” Don’t listen to that liar, Mimi⁠—listen to Pat, who loves you.</p>
				<p>Tomorrow night, about nine, I’ll have the car at the back road. I’ll manage to get away somehow, and you must too. Wear that frilly thing that I love⁠—you know, the green one⁠—and the slippers with butterflies on them, and nothing on your hair. The wickedest thing that you ever do is to wear a hat. No, I’m wrong, you can wear something on your hair, after all. On the two curls right behind your ears⁠—the littlest curls⁠—my curls⁠—you can wear two drops of that stuff that smells like lilacs in the rain. And I’ll put you⁠—and your curls⁠—and your slippers⁠—and your sweetness⁠—and your magic⁠—into my car and we’ll drive twenty miles away from those wagging tongues. And, Mimi, I’ll teach you how beautiful it is to be alive and young and in love, in a world that’s full of spring and stars and lilacs. Oh, Mimi, come quickly and let me teach you!</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">PAT.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The halting voice laboured to an all too brief silence. Even the back of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Oliver’s neck was incandescent⁠—perhaps he would not have flamed so hotly if he had realized how few eyes in the courtroom were resting on him. For across the crowded little room, Sue Ives, all her gay serenity gone, was staring at the figure by the window with terrified and incredulous eyes, black with tears.</p>
			<p>“Oh, Pat⁠—oh, Pat,” cried those drowning eyes, “what is this that you have done to us? Never loved anyone else? Never in all your life? What is this that you have done?”</p>
			<p>And as though in answer to that despairing cry, the man by the window half rose, shaking his head in fierce entreaty.</p>
			<p>“Don’t listen! Don’t listen!” implored his frantic eyes.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>“Now the next one, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Oliver,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Rosemont, <time datetime="06-08">June 8th</time>.</p>
				</header>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">Mimi darling, darling, darling:</p>
				<p>It’s after four o’clock and the birds in the vines outside the window are making the most awful row. I haven’t closed my eyes yet, and now I’m going to stop trying. What’s the use of sleeping, when here’s another day with Mimi in it? Dawn⁠—I always thought it was the worst word in the English language, and here I am on my knees waiting for it, and ranting about it like any fool⁠—like any happy, happy fool.</p>
				<p>I’m so happy that it simply isn’t decent. I keep telling myself that we’re mad⁠—that there’s black trouble ahead of us⁠—that I haven’t any right in the world to let you do this⁠—that I’m older and ought to be wiser. And when I get all through, the only thing I can remember is that I feel like a kid waking up on his birthday to find the sun and the moon and the stars and the world and a little red wagon sitting in a row at the foot of his bed. Because I have you, Mimi, and you’re the sun and the moon and the stars and the world⁠—and a little red wagon too, my beautiful love.</p>
				<p>Well, here’s the sun himself, and no one in Rosemont to pay any attention to him but the milkman and me. “The sun in splendour”⁠—what comes after that, do you remember? Not that it makes any difference; the only thing that makes any difference is that what will come after that in just a few minutes will be a clock striking five⁠—and then six and then seven and it will be another day⁠—another miraculous, incredible day getting under way in a world that holds Mimi in it. Lucky day, lucky world, lucky, lucky me, Mimi, who will be your worshipper while this world lasts.</p>
				<p>Good morning, Beautiful.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your <span epub:type="z3998:sender">Pat</span>.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The eyes of the Court swung avidly back to the slim figure in the space before them, but for once that bright head was bowed. Sue Ives was no longer looking at Mimi’s worshipper.</p>
			<p>“And the next?” murmured Farr.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p epub:type="se:letter.dateline">Rosemont, <time datetime="06-09">June 9th</time>.</p>
				</header>
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My little heart:</p>
				<p>I went to bed the minute I got home, just as I promised, but it didn’t do much good. I did go to sleep for a bit, but it was only to dream that you were leaning over me again with your hair swinging down like two lovely clouds of fire and saying over and over in that small, blessed voice⁠—that voice that I’d strain to hear from under three feet of sod⁠—“It’s not a dream, love, it’s not a dream⁠—it’s Mimi, who’s yours and who’s sweeter than all the dreams you’ll dream between here and heaven. Wake up. Wake up! She’s waiting for you. How can you sleep?” And I couldn’t sleep; no, it’s no use. Mimi, how can I ever sleep again, now that I have you?</p>
				<p>It wasn’t just a dream that between those shining clouds that are your hair your eyes were bright with laughter and with tears, was it, Mimi? No, that was not a dream. To think that anyone in the world can cry and still be beautiful! It must be an awful temptation to do it all the time⁠—only I know that you won’t. Darling, don’t cry. Even when you look beautiful and on the edge of laughter, it makes me want to kill myself. It’s because you’re afraid, isn’t it⁠—afraid that we won’t be able to make a go of it? Don’t be afraid. If you will come to me⁠—really, forever, not in little snatched bits of heaven like this, but to belong to me all the days of my life⁠—if you will believe in me and trust me, I swear that I’ll make you happy. I swear it.</p>
				<p>I know that at first it may be hideously hard. I know that giving up everything here and starting life all over somewhere with strangers will be hard to desperation. But it will be easier than trying to fight it out here, won’t it, Mimi? And in the end we’ll hold happiness in our hands⁠—you’ll see, my blessed. Don’t cry, don’t cry, my little girl⁠—not even in dreams, not even through laughter. Because, you see, like the Prince and Princess in the fairy tale, we’re going to live happy ever after.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Your <span epub:type="z3998:sender">Pat</span>.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That concludes the letters?” inquired Judge Carver, hopefully, his eyes on the bowed head beneath his throne.</p>
			<p>“That concludes them,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, removing them deftly from the assistant prosecutor’s palsied fingers. “And as it is close to four, I would like to make a suggestion. The state is ready to rest its case with these letters, but an extremely unfortunate occurrence has deprived us so far of one of our witnesses, who is essential as a link in the chain of evidence that we have forged. This witness was stricken three weeks ago with appendicitis and rushed to a New York hospital. I was given every assurance that he would be able to be present by this date, but late last week unfavourable symptoms developed and he has been closely confined ever since.</p>
			<p>“I have here the surgeon’s certificate that he is absolutely unable to take the stand today, but that it is entirely possible that he may do so by Monday. As this is Friday, therefore, I respectfully suggest that we adjourn to Monday, when the state will rest its case.”</p>
			<p>“Have you any objections, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert?”</p>
			<p>“Every objection, Your Honour!” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert with passionate conviction. “I have two witnesses myself who have come here at great inconvenience to themselves and are obliged to return at the earliest possible moment. What about them? What about the unfortunate jury? What about the unfortunate defendants? I have most emphatic objections to delaying this trial one second longer.”</p>
			<p>“Then I can only suggest that the trial proceed and that the state be permitted to produce its witness as soon as is humanly possible, in which case the defense would necessarily be permitted to produce what witnesses it saw fit in rebuttal.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert, still flown with some secret triumph, made an ample gesture of condescension.</p>
			<p>“Very well, I consider it highly irregular, but leave it that way⁠—leave it that way by all means. Now, Your Honour⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You say you have a certificate, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Your Honour.”</p>
			<p>“May we have its contents?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr tendered it promptly. “It’s from the chief surgeon at <abbr>St.</abbr> Luke’s. As you see, it simply says that it would be against his express orders that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Barretti should take the stand today, but that, if nothing unfavourable develops, he should be able to do so by Monday.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert has no objections you may produce <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Barretti then. You have no further questions?”</p>
			<p>“None, Your Honour.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, the Court stands adjourned until tomorrow at ten.”</p>
			<p>“What name did he say?” inquired the reporter in a curiously hushed voice. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> What?”</p>
			<p>“It sounded like Barretti,” said the redheaded girl, getting limply to her feet.</p>
			<p>“The poor fool!” murmured the reporter in the same awestricken tones.</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“Lambert. Did you get that? The poor blithering fool doesn’t know who he is and where he’s heading.”</p>
			<p>“Well, who is he?” inquired the redheaded girl over her shoulder despairingly. She felt that if anything else happened she would sit on the floor and cry, and she didn’t want to⁠—much.</p>
			<p>“It’s Barretti⁠—Gabriel Barretti,” said the reporter. “The greatest fingerprint expert in the world. Lord, it means that he must have their⁠—What in the world’s the matter? D’you want a handkerchief?”</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl, nodding feebly, clutched at the large white handkerchief with one hand and the large blue serge sleeve with the other. Anyway, she hadn’t sat on the floor.</p>
			<p>The fourth day of the Bellamy trial was over.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
