<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
			<p>The redheaded girl was late. The clock over the courtroom door said three minutes past ten. She flung herself, breathless, into the seat next to the lanky young man and inquired in a tragic whisper, “Have they started?”</p>
			<p>“Nope,” replied that imperturbable individual. “Calm yourself. You haven’t missed a single ‘hear ye.’ Your hat’s a good deal over one eye.”</p>
			<p>“I ran all the way from the station,” gasped the redheaded girl. “Every step. There’s not a taxi in this whole abominable place. And you were gone last night before I had a chance to ask you what you thought of the prosecutor’s speech.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps that’s why I went.”</p>
			<p>“No, truly, what did you think of it?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I think that boys being boys, jurors being jurors, prosecutors being prosecutors, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives being <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives, he did about as well as could be expected⁠—better than I expected.”</p>
			<p>“He can’t prove all those things, can he?” asked the redheaded girl, looking a little pale.</p>
			<p>“Ah, that’s it! When you get right down to it, the only things of any importance that he claimed he was going to prove were in one last sentence: That Bellamy and Sue Ives met and went to the front parlour of the gardener’s cottage, to confront Mimi Bellamy⁠—that’s his case. And a pretty good case, too, if you ask me. The rest of it was just a lot of good fancy, expansive words strung together in order to create pity, horror, prejudice, and suspicion in the eyes of the jury. And granted that purpose, they weren’t bad words, though there were a few bits that absolutely yelled for ‘<span epub:type="se:name.music.song">Hearts and Flowers</span>’ on muted strings somewhere in the background⁠—that little piece about going through the starlight to her lover.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“I thought the idea was that the prosecutor was after truth, not a conviction,” said the redheaded girl gravely.</p>
			<p>“The ideal, not the idea, my child. You didn’t precisely get the notion that he was urging the jury to consider that, though there was a pretty strong case against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives and Stephen Bellamy, there were a whole lot of other people who might have done it too⁠—or did you?”</p>
			<p>“He certainly said most distinctly that he wasn’t any bloodhound baying for a victim.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if he isn’t, I’ll bet that he gives such a good imitation of one that if Eliza should happen to hear him while she was crossing the ice she’d take two cakes at one jump. What did I tell you about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr and the classics? Did you get ‘she loved not wisely but too well’? That beats ‘I could not not love thee, dear, so much.’ ”</p>
			<p>Ben Potts’s high, clear voice pulled them abruptly to their feet. “The Court!”</p>
			<p>Through the little door behind the dais came the tall figure of Judge Carver, his spacious silks folding him in dignity⁠—rather a splendid figure. The jury, the counsel, the defendants⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives was wearing the same hat⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>“Hear ye! Hear ye! Hear ye! All those having business before this honourable court draw near, give your attention, and you shall be heard!”</p>
			<p>The clear singsong was drowned in the rustle of those in the courtroom sinking back into their seats.</p>
			<p>“Is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy in court?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Herbert Conroy!” intoned the crier.</p>
			<p>All heads turned to watch the small spare figure hurrying down the aisle toward the witness box.</p>
			<p>“You do solemnly swear that the testimony that you shall give to the court and jury in this case now on trial shall be truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?”</p>
			<p>“I do.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy’s faded blue eyes darted about him quietly as he mounted the stand, as though he were looking for a way out.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy, what is your profession?”</p>
			<p>“I am a real-estate broker.”</p>
			<p>“Is your office in Rosemont?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir; my office is in New York. My home, however, is in Brierdale, about three miles north of Rosemont.”</p>
			<p>“Have you the agency of the Thorne property, Orchards?”</p>
			<p>“I have.”</p>
			<p>“To whom does that property belong?”</p>
			<p>“It was left by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Curtiss Thorne’s will to his two sons, Charles and Douglas. Charles was killed in the war, and it therefore reverted to the elder son, Douglas. He is now the sole owner.”</p>
			<p>“And he placed it with you to sell?”</p>
			<p>“To sell or to rent⁠—preferably to sell.”</p>
			<p>“Have you had offers for it?”</p>
			<p>“None that we regarded as satisfactory; it was too large a property to appeal to the average man in the market for a country home, as it consisted of more than eighty acres and a house of twenty-four rooms. On the afternoon of the <time datetime="1926-06-19">nineteenth of June, 1926</time>, however, I showed the photographs of the house to a gentleman from Cleveland who was about to transfer his business to the East. He was delighted with them and made no quibble about the price if the property proved to be all that it seemed.”</p>
			<p>“You were in New York at this time?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; and a dinner engagement there prevented me from taking him out to Rosemont that afternoon. He was extremely anxious, however, to see it as soon as possible, as he was leaving for the West the following afternoon. So I arranged to take him next morning at nine o’clock.”</p>
			<p>“And did so?”</p>
			<p>“And did so.”</p>
			<p>“Now will you be good enough to tell us, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy, just what happened when you arrived with this gentleman at Orchards on the morning of the twentieth?”</p>
			<p>“We drove out from New York in my roadster, arriving at the lodge gates of the property shortly after nine o’clock, I should say. I was to collect the keys under the doormat at the gardener’s cottage, which was halfway between the lodge and the main house⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Just a moment, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy. Was the lodge occupied?”</p>
			<p>“No; at this particular time no building on the place was occupied. In <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Curtiss Thorne’s day, the lodge was occupied by the chauffeur and his family, the gardener’s cottage by the gardener and his family, and there was another cottage used by a farmer on the extreme western boundary. None of these had been occupied for some time, with the exception of the gardener’s cottage, whose occupants had been given a vacation of two months in order to visit their aged parents in Italy. Shall I go on?”</p>
			<p>“Please.”</p>
			<p>“The gardener’s cottage is a low five-room building at a bend of the road, and is practically concealed as you approach it from the main driveway by the very high shrubbery that surrounds it⁠—lilacs, syringa, and the like. There is a little drive that shoots off from the main driveway and circles the cottage, and we drove in there, to the front of the house, and mounted the steps to the front porch, as my client wished to see the interior. Just as I bent down to secure the keys, I was surprised to see that the door was slightly ajar. I picked up the keys, pushed it farther open, and went in, rather expecting that sneak thieves might have preceded me.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy paused for a moment in his steady, precise narrative, his pale face a little paler. “Shall I continue?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>“On my left was the dining room, with the door closed; on my right, the room known as the parlour. The door was open, but only a small section of the room was visible from the corridor, and it was not until I had crossed the threshold that I realized that something frightful had occurred. In the corner of the room farthest from the door⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Just a minute, please. Was your client with you when you entered the room?”</p>
			<p>“He was a step or so behind me, I believe. In the corner of the room was the⁠—the body of a young woman in a white frock. A small table was overturned beside her, and at her feet was a lamp, the chimney and shade shattered and some oil spilled on the floor. The smell of the kerosene was very strong⁠—very strong indeed.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy looked a little ill, as though the odour of that spilled kerosene were still about him.</p>
			<p>“Was the girl’s head toward you, or her feet, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“Her feet. Her head was resting on the corner of a low fender⁠—a species of steel railing⁠—that circled the base of a Franklin stove.”</p>
			<p>“Did you notice anything else?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; I noticed that there was blood.” He glanced about him swiftly, as though he were startled by the sound of the word, and lowered his voice. “A great deal of blood.”</p>
			<p>“On the dress?”</p>
			<p>“Principally on the dress. I believe that there was also a little on the carpet, though I could not be sure of that. But principally it was on the dress.”</p>
			<p>“Can you tell us about the dress?”</p>
			<p>Again <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy’s haunted eyes went wandering. “The dress? It was soaked in blood, sir⁠—I think I may say that it was soaked in blood.”</p>
			<p>“No, no⁠—I mean what kind of a dress was it? An evening dress?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I hardly know. I suppose you might call it that. Not a ball gown, you understand⁠—just a thin lacy dress, with the neck cut out a little and short sleeves. I remember that quite well⁠—the lady’s arms were bare.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor, who had been carelessly fingering some papers and pamphlets on the top of a small square box, brushed them impatiently aside and scooped something else out of its depths.</p>
			<p>“Was this the dress, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>The long screech of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy’s chair as he shoved it violently back tore through the courtroom like something human, echoing through every heart. The prosecutor was nonchalantly dangling before the broker’s staring eyes a crumpled object⁠—a white dress, streaked and splotched and dotted with that most ominous colour known to the eyes of man⁠—the curious rusted sinister red of dried blood.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy, his voice barely above a whisper⁠—“yes, yes; that is it⁠—that is the dress.”</p>
			<p>The fascinated eyes of the spectators wrenched themselves from the dress to the two defendants. Susan Ives was not looking at it. Her head was as high as ever, her lips as steady, but her eyes were bent intently on a scrap of paper that she held in her gloved fingers. Apparently <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives was deeply interested in the contents.</p>
			<p>Stephen Bellamy was not reading. He sat watching that handful of lace and blood as though it were Medusa’s head, his blank, unswerving eyes riveted to it by something inexorable and intolerable. His face was as quiet as Susan Ives’s, save for a dreadful little ripple of muscles about the set mouth⁠—the ripple that comes from clenched teeth, clenched harder, harder⁠—harder still, lest there escape through them some sound not meant for decent human ears. Save for that ripple, he did not move a hairbreadth.</p>
			<p>“Was the blood on this dress dry when you first saw it, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“No, it was not dry.”</p>
			<p>“You ascertained that by touching it?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy’s small neat body seemed to contract farther into itself.</p>
			<p>“No, I did not touch it. It was not necessary to touch it to see that. It⁠—it was quite apparent.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Your Honour, I ask to have this dress marked for identification.”</p>
			<p>“It may be marked,” said Judge Carver quietly, eyeing it steadily and gravely for a moment before he returned to his notes.</p>
			<p>“Got that?” inquired <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr briskly, handing it over to the clerk of the court. “I offer it in evidence.”</p>
			<p>“Are there any objections?” inquired Judge Carver.</p>
			<p>“Your Honour, I fail to see what necessity there is for⁠—”</p>
			<p>The judge cut sharply across Lambert’s voice: “You are not required to be the arbiter of that, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert. The state is conducting its case without your assistance, to the best of my knowledge. Do you object, and if so, on what grounds?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s ruddy countenance became a shade more ruddy. He opened his mouth, thought better of it, and closed it with an audible snap. “No objection.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy, did you notice whether the slippers were stained?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—yes, they were considerably stained.”</p>
			<p>“What type of slippers were they?”</p>
			<p>“They were shiny slippers, with very high heels and some kind of bright, sparkling little buckles, I believe.”</p>
			<p>“Like these?” Once more the resourceful <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr had delved into the square box, and he placed the result of his research deftly on the edge of the witness box. A pair of silver slippers with rhinestone buckles, exquisite and inadequate enough for the most foolish of women, small enough for a man to hold in one outstretched hand⁠—sparkling, absurd, and coquettish, they perched on that dark rim, the buckles gleaming valiantly above the dark and sinister splotches that turned them from gay and charming toys to tokens of horror.</p>
			<p>“Those are the slippers,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy, his shaken voice barely audible.</p>
			<p>“I offer them in evidence.”</p>
			<p>“No objections.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s voice was an objection in itself.</p>
			<p>“Now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy, will you be good enough to tell us what you did as soon as you made this discovery?”</p>
			<p>“I said to my client, ‘There has been foul play here. We must get the police.’ ”</p>
			<p>“No, not what you said, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy⁠—what you did.”</p>
			<p>“I returned to my roadster with my client, locking the front door behind me with a key from the ring that I had found under the doormat, and drove as rapidly as possible to police headquarters in Rosemont, reporting what I had discovered.”</p>
			<p>“Just what did you report?”</p>
			<p>“I reported that I had found the body of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Stephen Bellamy in the gardener’s cottage of the old Thorne place, and that it looked as though she had been murdered.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you recognized <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. She was a friend of my sister-in-law, who lives in Rosemont. I had met her on two occasions.”</p>
			<p>“And what did you do then?”</p>
			<p>“I considered that the matter was then out of my hands, but I endeavoured to reach <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Douglas Thorne by telephone, to tell him what had occurred. I was not successful, however, and returned immediately to New York with my client.”</p>
			<p>“He decided not to inspect the place farther?”</p>
			<p>For the first time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy permitted himself a small, pallid, apologetic ghost of a smile. “Exactly. He decided that under the circumstances he did not desire to go farther with the transaction. It did not seem to him, if I may so express it, a particularly auspicious omen.”</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s quite comprehensible. Did you notice when you were in this parlour whether <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy was wearing any jewellery, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“To the best of my recollection, she was not, sir.”</p>
			<p>“You are quite sure of that?”</p>
			<p>“I am not able to swear to it, but it is my distinct impression that she was not. I was only in the room a minute or so, you understand, but I still retain a most vivid picture of it⁠—a most vivid picture, I may say.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy passed a weary hand over his high brow, and that vivid picture seemed suddenly to float before the eyes of every occupant of the court.</p>
			<p>“You did not see a weapon?”</p>
			<p>“No. I could not swear that one was not there, but certainly I did not see one.”</p>
			<p>“I understood you to say that you locked the front door of the gardener’s cottage with one of the keys that you found on the ring under the mat. How many keys were on that ring?”</p>
			<p>“Seven or eight, I think⁠—a key to the lodge, to the garage opposite the lodge, to the gardener’s cottage, to the farmer’s house, to the front and back doors of the main house, and to the cellar⁠—possibly others.”</p>
			<p>“Didn’t it ever strike you as a trifle imprudent to keep these keys in such an unprotected spot, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“We did not consider it an unprotected spot, sir. The gardener’s cottage was a long way from the road, and it did not seem at all likely that they would be discovered.”</p>
			<p>“Whom do you mean by ‘we,’ <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy made a small restless movement. “I was referring to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Douglas Thorne and myself.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne knew that the keys were kept there, did he?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite so⁠—naturally.”</p>
			<p>“Why ‘naturally,’ <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“I said naturally⁠—I said naturally because <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne had placed them there himself.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I see. And when had <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne placed them there?”</p>
			<p>“He had placed them there on the previous evening.”</p>
			<p>“On the previous evening?” Even the prosecutor’s voice sounded startled.</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“At what time?”</p>
			<p>“I am not sure of the exact time.”</p>
			<p>“Well, can you tell us approximately?”</p>
			<p>“I am not able to state positively even the approximate time.”</p>
			<p>“Was it before seven in the evening?”</p>
			<p>“I do not believe so.”</p>
			<p>“How did you acquire the knowledge that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne was to leave those keys at the cottage, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“By telephone.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne telephoned you?”</p>
			<p>“No, I telephoned <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne.”</p>
			<p>“At what time?”</p>
			<p>“At about half-past six on the evening of the nineteenth.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Will you be good enough to give us the gist of what you said to him over the telephone?”</p>
			<p>“I had been trying to reach <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne for some time, both at his home in Lakedale and in town.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne does not live in Rosemont?”</p>
			<p>“No; he lives the other side of Lakedale, which is about twelve miles nearer New York. When I finally reached him, after his return from a golf match, I explained to him the urgency of getting into the house as early as possible the following morning and suggested that he might drive over after dinner and leave the keys under the mat of the cottage. I apologized to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne for causing him so much trouble, and he remarked that it was no trouble at all, as⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No, not what he remarked, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy⁠—only what you said.”</p>
			<p>“I do not remember that I said anything further of any importance.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know at what time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne is in the habit of dining, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“I do not, sir.”</p>
			<p>“How long should you say that it would take to drive from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne’s home to Orchards?”</p>
			<p>“It is, roughly, about fourteen miles. I should imagine that it would depend entirely on the rate at which you drove.”</p>
			<p>“Driving at an ordinary rate, some thirty-five to forty minutes, should you say?”</p>
			<p>“Possibly.”</p>
			<p>“So that if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne had finished his dinner at about eight, he would have arrived at Orchards shortly before nine?”</p>
			<p>“I really couldn’t tell you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr. You know quite as much about that as I do.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy’s small, harassed, unhappy face looked almost defiant for a moment, and then wavered under the geniality of the prosecutor’s infrequent smile.</p>
			<p>“I believe that you are right, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy.” He turned abruptly toward the court crier. “Is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Douglas Thorne in court?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Douglas Thorne!” intoned the crier in his high, pleasant falsetto.</p>
			<p>A tall lean man, bronzed and distinguished, rose promptly to his feet from his seat in the fourth row. “Here, sir.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne, will you be good enough to speak to me after court is over?⁠ ⁠… Thanks. That will be all, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy. Cross-examine.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert approached the witness box with a curious air of caution.</p>
			<p>“It was entirely at your suggestion that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Thorne brought the keys, was it not, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, certainly⁠—entirely.”</p>
			<p>“He might have left them there at eight o’clock or at even eleven o’clock, as far as you know?”</p>
			<p>“Exactly.”</p>
			<p>“That is all, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy.”</p>
			<p>“No further questions,” said the prosecutor curtly. “Call <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Paul Stanley.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Paul Stanley!”</p>
			<p>The man who took Herbert Conroy’s place in the witness box was a comfortable-looking individual with a fine thatch of gray hair and an amiable and intelligent countenance, which he turned benignly on the prosecutor.</p>
			<p>“What is your profession, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley?”</p>
			<p>“I am a surgeon. In my early youth I was that now fabulous creature, a general practitioner.”</p>
			<p>He smiled engagingly at the prosecutor, and the crowded courtroom relaxed. A nice, restful individual, after the haunted little real-estate broker.</p>
			<p>“You have performed autopsies before, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley?”</p>
			<p>“Frequently.”</p>
			<p>“And in this case you performed the autopsy on the body of Madeleine Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“I did.”</p>
			<p>“Where did you first see the body?”</p>
			<p>“In the front room of the gardener’s cottage on the Thorne estate.”</p>
			<p>“Did you hear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy’s testimony?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Was the body in the position in which he described it at the time that he saw it?”</p>
			<p>“In exactly that position. Later, for purposes of the autopsy, it was removed to the room opposite⁠—the dining room.”</p>
			<p>“Please tell us under what circumstances you first saw the body.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley settled himself a trifle more comfortably in his chair and turned a trifle toward the jury, who stared back gratefully into his friendly countenance. If <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley had been explaining just how he reeled in the biggest trout of the season, he could not have looked more affably at ease. “I went out to the cottage with my friend Elias Dutton, the coroner, and two or three state troopers. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy had turned over the key to the cottage to us, and we found everything as he had described it to us.”</p>
			<p>“Were there signs of a struggle?”</p>
			<p>“You mean on the body?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—scratches, bruises, torn or disarranged clothing?”</p>
			<p>“No, there were no signs of any description of a struggle, save for the overturned table and the lamp.”</p>
			<p>“Might that have happened when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy fell?”</p>
			<p>“The table might very readily have been overturned at that time; it was toward <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy’s head and almost on top of the body. The lamp, on the other hand, was practically at her feet.”</p>
			<p>“Could it have rolled there as the table crashed?”</p>
			<p>“Possibly, but it’s doubtful. The fragments of lamp chimney and shade were there, too, you see, some six feet away from the table.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Will you tell us now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley, just what caused the death of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy’s heart was punctured by some sharp instrument⁠—a knife, I should say.”</p>
			<p>“There was only one wound?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Will you please describe it to us?”</p>
			<p>“There was a clean incision about three quarters of an inch long in the skin just over the heart. The instrument had penetrated to a depth of approximately three inches, and had passed between the ribs over the heart.”</p>
			<p>“Was it necessary that the blow should have been delivered with great force?”</p>
			<p>“Not necessarily. If the knife had struck a rib, it would have taken considerable force to deflect it, but in this case it encountered no obstacle whatever.”</p>
			<p>“So that a woman with a strong wrist could have struck the blow?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, certainly⁠—or a woman with a weak wrist⁠—or a child⁠—or a strong man, as far as that goes. There is no evidence at all from the wound as to the force with which the blow was delivered.”</p>
			<p>“I see.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr reached casually over to the clerk’s desk and handed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley the dreadful rag that had been Madeleine Bellamy’s white lace dress. “Do you recognize this dress, Doctor?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly.”</p>
			<p>“Will you be good enough to indicate to us just where the knife penetrated the fabric?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley turned it deftly in his long-fingered, capable hands. Something in that skilful scientific touch seemed to purge it of horror⁠—averted eyes travelled back to it warily.</p>
			<p>“The knife went through it right here. If you look closely, you can see the severed threads⁠—just here, where the stain is darkest.”</p>
			<p>“Exactly. Would such a wound have caused instantaneous death, Doctor, in your opinion?”</p>
			<p>“Not instantaneous⁠—no. Death would follow very rapidly, however.”</p>
			<p>“A minute or so?”</p>
			<p>“A few minutes⁠—the loss of blood would be tremendous.”</p>
			<p>“Would the victim be likely to make much outcry⁠—screaming, moaning, or the like?”</p>
			<p>“Well, it’s a little difficult to generalize about that. In this particular case, there is reason to doubt whether there was any outcry after the blow was struck.”</p>
			<p>“What reason have you to suppose that?”</p>
			<p>“I think that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Conroy has already testified that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy’s head was resting on the corner of a steel fire guard⁠—a pierced railing about six inches high. It is my belief that, when she received the blow, she staggered, clutched at the table, and fell, striking the back of her head against the railing with sufficient force to render her totally unconscious. There was a serious abrasion at the back of the head that leads me to draw that conclusion.”</p>
			<p>“I see. Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy wearing any jewellery when you saw her, Doctor⁠—a necklace, rings, brooches?”</p>
			<p>“I saw no jewellery of any kind on the body.”</p>
			<p>“What type of knife should you say was used to commit this murder, Doctor?”</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s a little difficult to say. There were no marked peculiarities about the wound. It might have been caused by almost any knife with a sharp blade about three quarters of an inch wide and from three to four inches long⁠—a sheath knife, a small kitchen knife, a large jackknife or clasp knife⁠—various types, as I say.”</p>
			<p>“Could it have been made with this?”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor dropped a small dark object into the doctor’s outstretched hand and stood aside so that the jury, galvanized to goggle-eyed attention, could see it better. It was a knife⁠—a large jackknife, with a rough, corrugated bone handle.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert bore down on the scene at a subdued gallop. “Are you offering this knife in evidence?”</p>
			<p>“I am not.”</p>
			<p>Judge Carver leaned forward, his black silk robes rustling ominously. “What is this knife, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr?”</p>
			<p>“This is a knife, Your Honour, that I propose to connect up with the case at a somewhat later stage. At present I ask to have it marked for identification merely for purposes of the record.”</p>
			<p>“You say that you will be able to connect it?”</p>
			<p>“Absolutely.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, you may answer the question, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley.”</p>
			<p>The doctor was inspecting it gravely, his eyes bright with interest.</p>
			<p>“I may open it?”</p>
			<p>“Please do.”</p>
			<p>In the breathless stillness the little click as the large blade sprang back was clearly audible. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Stanley bent over it attentively, passed a forefinger reflectively along its shining surface, raised his head. “Yes, it could quite easily have been done with this.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor snapped the blade to with an enigmatic smile. “Thank you. That will be all.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Kathleen Page!”</p>
			<p>Before the ring of that high imperious summons had died in the air, she was there⁠—a demure and dainty wraith, all in gray from the close feathered hat to the little buckled shoes. A pale oval face that might have belonged to the youngest and smallest of Botticelli’s Madonnas; cloudy eyes to match her frock, extravagantly fringed with heavy lashes; a forlorn, coaxing little mouth; sleek coils of dark hair. A murmur of interest rose, swelled, and died under Judge Carver’s eagle eye.</p>
			<p>“Miss Page, what is your present occupation?”</p>
			<p>“I am a librarian at a branch public library in New York.”</p>
			<p>“Is that your regular occupation?”</p>
			<p>“It has been for the past six months.”</p>
			<p>“Was it previous to that time?”</p>
			<p>“Do you mean immediately previous?”</p>
			<p>“At any time previous.”</p>
			<p>“I was assistant librarian in White Plains from <time datetime="1921">1921</time> to <time datetime="1925">1925</time>.”</p>
			<p>“And after that?”</p>
			<p>“During <time datetime="1925-02">February of 1925</time> I had a serious attack of flu. It left me in rather bad shape, and the doctor recommended that I try to get some work in the country that would keep me outdoors a good deal and give me plenty of sleep.”</p>
			<p>“And did you decide on any occupation that would fit those requirements?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Leonard suggested that I might try for a position as governess. One of his patients was looking for a temporary governess for her children, and he suggested that I might try that.”</p>
			<p>“And did you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“You were successful?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Who was the patient suggested by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Leonard?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives.”</p>
			<p>As though the name were a magnet, the faces in the courtroom swung in a brief half circle toward its owner. There she sat in her brief tweed skirt and loose jacket, the bright little felt hat pulled severely down over the shining wings of her hair, her hidden eyes riveted on her clasped hands in their fawn-coloured gauntlets. At the sound of her name she lifted her head, glanced briefly and levelly at the greedy, curious faces pressing toward her, less briefly and more levelly at the seraphic countenance under the drooping feather on the witness stand, and returned to the gloves. Only the curve of her lips remained for the benefit of those prying eyes⁠—a lovely curve, ironic and inscrutable. The half circle swung back to the demure occupant of the witness box.</p>
			<p>“And how long were you in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s employment?”</p>
			<p>“Until <time datetime="1926-06">June, 1926</time>.”</p>
			<p>“What day of the month?”</p>
			<p>“The <time datetime="1926-06-21">twenty-first</time>.”</p>
			<p>“Then on the night of the <time datetime="1926-06-19">nineteenth of June</time> you were still in the employment of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Will you be good enough to tell us just what you were doing at eight o’clock that evening?”</p>
			<p>“I had finished supper at a little before eight and was just settling down to read in the day nursery when I remembered that I had left my book down by the sandpile at the end of the garden, where I had been playing with the children before supper. So I went down to get it.”</p>
			<p>“Had you any way of fixing the time?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. I heard the dining room clock strike eight as I went by. I noticed it especially, as I thought, ‘That’s eight o’clock and it’s still broad daylight.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Did you see anyone on your way out of the house?”</p>
			<p>“I met <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives just outside the nursery door. He had come in late to dinner and hadn’t come up to say good night to the children before. He asked if they had gone to bed.⁠ ⁠… Shall I go on?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>“I said that they were in bed but not asleep, and asked him please not to get them too excited. He had a boat for little Peter in his hand and I was afraid that he would get him in such a state that I wouldn’t be able to do anything with him at all.”</p>
			<p>“A boat? What kind of a boat?”</p>
			<p>“A little sailboat⁠—a model of a schooner. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives had been working on it for some time.”</p>
			<p>“Made it himself, had he?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. He was very clever at that kind of thing. He’d made Polly a wonderful doll house.”</p>
			<p>“Your Honour⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Try to confine yourself directly to the question, Miss Page.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, Your Honour.” The meek contrition of the velvet-voiced Miss Page was a model for all future witnesses.</p>
			<p>“Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives fond of the children?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, he adored⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I object to that question, Your Honour.” The preliminary tossings had resolved themselves into an actual upheaval this time and all of the two hundred and fifty pounds of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert were on his feet.</p>
			<p>“Very well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert, you may be heard. You object on what grounds?”</p>
			<p>“I object to this entire line of questioning as absolutely immaterial, incompetent and irrelevant. How is Miss Page qualified to judge as to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s affection for his children? And even if her opinion had the slightest weight, what has his affection for his children got to do with the murder of this girl? For reasons which I don’t pretend to grasp, the learned counsel for the prosecution is simply wasting the time of this court.”</p>
			<p>“You might permit the Court to be the judge of that.” Judge Carver’s fine dark eyes rested somewhat critically on the protestant bulk before him. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, you may be heard.”</p>
			<p>“Of course, Your Honour, with all due deference to my brilliant opponent’s fireworks, he’s talking pure nonsense. Miss Page is perfectly⁠—”</p>
			<p>Judge Carver’s gavel fell with a crash. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, the Court must ask you once and for all to keep to the matter in hand. Can you connect your question with this case?”</p>
			<p>“Most certainly. It is the contention of the state that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives realized perfectly that if <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives decided that he wanted a divorce he would fight vigorously for at least partial custody of his children, whom, as Miss Page was about to tell us, he adored. Moreover, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives had strong religious objections to divorce. It was therefore essential to her to get rid of anyone who threatened her security if she wanted to keep the children. In order to prove this, it is necessary to establish <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s affection. And it ought to be perfectly obvious to anyone that Miss Page is in an excellent position to tell us what that affection was. I maintain that this question is absolutely relevant and material, and that Miss Page is perfectly competent to reply to it.”</p>
			<p>“The question may be answered.”</p>
			<p>“Exception.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives adored the children and they adored him. He was with them constantly.”</p>
			<p>“Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives fond of them?”</p>
			<p>“Objection on the same grounds, Your Honour.”</p>
			<p>“The question is allowed.”</p>
			<p>“Exception.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, she was devoted to them.”</p>
			<p>“As devoted to them as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“Now, Your Honour⁠—”</p>
			<p>Judge Carver eyed the impassioned Lambert with temperate interest. “That seems a fairly broad question, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, calling for a conclusion.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, Your Honour, I’ll reframe it. Did she seem as fond of them as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite, I should think⁠—though, of course, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives is not demonstrative.”</p>
			<p>“I see⁠—not demonstrative. Cold and reserved, eh?”</p>
			<p>Judge Carver’s stern voice cut sharply across Miss Page’s pretty, distressed, appealing murmur: “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr, the Court is anxious to give you as much latitude as possible, but we believe that you have gone quite far enough along this particular line.”</p>
			<p>“I defer entirely to Your Honour’s judgment.⁠ ⁠… Miss Page, was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives when you met him coming into the nursery with the boat in his hand?”</p>
			<p>“No, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives had already said good night to the children before her dinner.”</p>
			<p>“Did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives go into the nursery before you went downstairs?”</p>
			<p>“He went past me into the day nursery, and I have no doubt that he then went into the night nursery.”</p>
			<p>“Never mind that. I only want the facts that are in your actual knowledge. There were two nurseries, you say?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Will you be good enough to tell us how they were arranged?”</p>
			<p>“The day and night nurseries are in the right wing of the house, on the third floor.”</p>
			<p>“What other rooms are on that floor?”</p>
			<p>“My room, a bathroom, and a small sewing room.”</p>
			<p>“Please tell us what the arrangement would be as you enter the front door.”</p>
			<p>“Let me see⁠—when you come in through the door you come into a very large hall that takes up almost all the central portion of the house. The central portion was an old farmhouse, and the wings, that contain all the rooms really, were added by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives. She knocked out the inside structure of the farmhouse and left it just a shell that she made into a big hall three stories high, with galleries around it on the second and third floors leading to the bedroom wings. There were two staircases at the back of the hall, leading to the right and left of the galleries. I’m afraid that I’m not being very clear, but it’s a little confusing.”</p>
			<p>“You are being quite clear. Tell us just how the rooms open out as you come through the door.”</p>
			<p>“Well, to the right is a small cloakroom and the big living room. It’s very large⁠—it forms the whole ground floor of the right wing in fact. Over it are <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s rooms.”</p>
			<p>“Did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives occupy separate rooms?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, there was a large bedroom, and on one side of it was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s dressing room and bath, and to the left <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s dressing room and bath. On the third floor were the nurseries and my room. On the left downstairs as you came in was a little flower room.”</p>
			<p>“A flower room?”</p>
			<p>“A room that was used for arranging flowers, you know. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daniel Ives used it a great deal. It had shelves of vases and a sink and a big porcelain-topped table. The downstairs telephone was in there, too, and⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Your Honour, may we ask where all this is leading?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s tone was tremulous with impatience.</p>
			<p>“You may. The Court was about to make the same inquiry. Is this exhaustive questioning necessary, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr?”</p>
			<p>“Absolutely necessary, Your Honour. I can assure <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert that it is leading to a very interesting conclusion, however distasteful he may find both the path and the goal. I will be as brief as possible, I promise.”</p>
			<p>“Very well, you may continue, Miss Page.”</p>
			<p>Miss Page raised limpid eyes in appealing deprecation. “I’m so frightfully sorry. I’ve absolutely forgotten where I was.”</p>
			<p>“You were telling us that there was a telephone in the flower room.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes⁠—that is in the first room to the left as you come in. It’s really part of the hall.”</p>
			<p>“You mean that it has no door?”</p>
			<p>“No, no, it has a door. I simply meant that you came to it before you entered the left wing. It balances the cloakroom on the right-hand side. They’re rather like very large closets, you know, except that they both have windows.”</p>
			<p>“What do the windows open on to?”</p>
			<p>“The front porch.⁠ ⁠… Shall I go on with the rooms?”</p>
			<p>“Please, and as briefly as possible.”</p>
			<p>“The first room in the left wing is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s study. It opens into the dining room. They form the ground floor of the left wing. Above them are <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daniel Ives’s room and bath and two guest rooms and another bath. Above these on the third floor are the servants’ quarters.”</p>
			<p>“How many servants were there?”</p>
			<p>“Let me see⁠—there were six, I think, but only the four maids lived in the house.”</p>
			<p>“Please tell us who they were.”</p>
			<p>“There was the cook, Anna Baker; the waitress, Melanie Cordier; the chambermaid, Katie Brien; and Laura Roberts, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s personal maid and seamstress. They had four small rooms in the left wing, third floor. James and Robert MacDonald, the chauffeur and gardener, were brothers and lived in quarters over the garage. Oh, there was a laundress, too, but I don’t remember her name. She didn’t live in the house⁠—only came in four days a week.”</p>
			<p>“You have described the entire household?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“And the entire layout of the house?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—well, with the exception of the service quarters. You reached them through a door at the back of the big hall⁠—kitchen, laundry, servants’ dining room and pantry, which opened also into the dining room. They ran across the back of the house. Do you want me to describe them further?”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, no. We can go on with your story now. Did you see anyone but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives on your way to the sandpile?”</p>
			<p>“Not in the house. I passed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daniel Ives on my way through the rose garden. She always used to work there after dinner until it got dark. She asked me as I went by if the children were asleep, and I told her that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives was with them.”</p>
			<p>“What did you do then?”</p>
			<p>“I found the book in the swing by the sandpile and went back across the lawn to the house. As I was starting up the steps, I heard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Patrick Ives’s voice, speaking from the flower room at the left of the front door. She was speaking very softly, but the window on to the porch was open and I could hear her distinctly.”</p>
			<p>“Was she speaking to someone in the room?”</p>
			<p>“No, she was telephoning. I think that I’ve already said that the downstairs phone is in that room. She was giving a telephone number⁠—Rosemont 200.”</p>
			<p>“Were you familiar with that number?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite. I had called it up for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives several times.”</p>
			<p>“Whose number was it, Miss Page?”</p>
			<p>“It was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen Bellamy’s telephone number.”</p>
			<p>The courtroom pulsed to galvanized attention, its eyes whipping to Stephen Bellamy’s tired, dark face. It was lit with a strange, friendly, reassuring smile, directed straight at Susan Ives’s startled countenance. For a moment she stared back at him soberly, then slowly the colour came back into her parted lips, which curved gravely to mirror that voiceless greeting. For a long moment their eyes rested on each other before they returned to their accustomed guarded inscrutability. As clearly as though they were shouting across the straining faces, those lingering eyes called to each other, “Courage!”</p>
			<p>“You say that you could hear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives distinctly, Miss Page?”</p>
			<p>“Very distinctly.”</p>
			<p>“Will you tell us just what she said?”</p>
			<p>“She said”⁠—Miss Page frowned a little in concentration and then went on steadily⁠—“she said, ‘Is that you, Stephen?⁠ ⁠… It’s Sue⁠—Sue Ives. Is Mimi there?⁠ ⁠… How long ago did she leave?⁠ ⁠… Are you sure she went there?⁠ ⁠… No, wait⁠—this is vital. I have to see you at once. Can you get the car here in ten minutes?⁠ ⁠… No, not at the house. Stop at the far corner of the back road. I’ll come through the back gate to meet you.⁠ ⁠… Elliot didn’t say anything to you?⁠ ⁠… No, no, never mind that⁠—just hurry.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Is that all that she said?”</p>
			<p>“She said goodbye.”</p>
			<p>“Nothing else?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing else.”</p>
			<p>“What did you do then?”</p>
			<p>“I turned back from the porch steps and circled the house to the right, going in by the side door and on up to the nursery.”</p>
			<p>“Why did you do that?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t want <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives to know that I had overheard her conversation. I thought if by any chance she saw me coming in through the side door, it would not occur to her that I could have heard it from there.”</p>
			<p>“I see. When you got up to the nursery was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives still there?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; he came out of the night nursery when he heard me and said that the children were quiet now.”</p>
			<p>“Did he say anything else to you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; he still had the boat in his hand, and he said there was something that he wanted to fix about the rudder, and that he’d bring it back in the morning.”</p>
			<p>“Did you say anything to him?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Please tell us what you said.”</p>
			<p>“I told him that I had just overheard a telephone conversation that his wife was having with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Bellamy, and that I thought he should know about it.”</p>
			<p>“Did you tell him about it?”</p>
			<p>“Not at that moment. As I was about to do so, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives herself called up from the foot of the stairs to ask <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives if he still intended to go to the poker game at the Dallases.⁠ ⁠… Shall I go on?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives said yes, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives said that in that case she would go to the movies with the Conroys, who had asked her before dinner. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives asked her if he couldn’t drop her there, and she said no⁠—that it was only a short walk and that she needed the exercise. She went straight out of the front door, I think. I heard it slam behind her.”</p>
			<p>“What did you do then?”</p>
			<p>“I said, ‘Your wife has gone to meet Stephen Bellamy.’ ”</p>
			<p>“And then what happened?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives said, ‘Don’t be a damned little fool.’ ”</p>
			<p>Miss Page smiled meekly and appreciatively at the audible ripple from the other side of the railing.</p>
			<p>“Did you say anything to that?”</p>
			<p>“I simply repeated the telephone conversation.”</p>
			<p>“Word for word?”</p>
			<p>“Word for word, and when I’d finished, he said, ‘My God, somebody’s told her.’ ”</p>
			<p>“I object. Your Honour, I ask that that be stricken from the record!” Lambert’s frenzied clamour filled the room. “What <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives said⁠—”</p>
			<p>“It may be stricken out.”</p>
			<p>Judge Carver’s tone was the sternest of rebukes, but the unchastened prosecutor stood staring down at her demure face triumphant for a moment, and then, with a brief expressive gesture toward the defense, turned her abruptly over to their mercies. “That’s all. Cross-examine.”</p>
			<p>“No lunch today either?”</p>
			<p>“No, I’ve got to get these notes off.”</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl proudly exhibited an untidy pile of telegraph blanks and a much-bitten pencil. The gold pencil and the black leather notebook had been flung contemptuously out of the cab window on the way back to the boarding house the night before.</p>
			<p>“Me too. We’ll finish ’em up here and I’ll get ’em off for you.⁠ ⁠… Here’s your apple.”</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl took it obediently, a fine glow invading her. How simply superb to be working there beside a real reporter; such a fire of comradeship and good will burned in her that it set twin fires flaming in her cheeks. The newspaper game! There was nothing like it, absolutely. Her pencil tore across the page in a fever of industry.</p>
			<p>It was almost fifty minutes before the reporter spoke again, and then it was only in reply to a question: “What⁠—what did you think of her?”</p>
			<p>“Think of whom?”</p>
			<p>“Of Kathleen Page.”</p>
			<p>“Well, you don’t happen to have a pat of the very best butter about you?”</p>
			<p>“Whatever for?”</p>
			<p>“To see if it would melt in her mouth.”</p>
			<p>“It wouldn’t,” said the redheaded girl; and added fiercely, “I hate her⁠—nasty, hypocritical, unprincipled little toad!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, come, come! I hope that you won’t allow any of this to creep into those notes of yours.”</p>
			<p>“She probably killed Mimi Bellamy herself,” replied the newest member of the Fourth Estate darkly. “I wouldn’t put it past her for a moment. She⁠—”</p>
			<p>“The Court!”</p>
			<p>The redheaded girl flounced to her feet, the fires still burning in her cheeks, eyeing Miss Page’s graceful ascent to the witness box with a baleful eye. “I hope she’s headed straight for all the trouble there is,” she remarked between clenched teeth to the reporter.</p>
			<p>For the moment it looked as though her wish were about to be gratified.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert lumbered menacingly toward the witness box, his ruddy face grim and relentless. “You remember a great deal about that evening, don’t you, Miss Page?”</p>
			<p>“I have a very good memory.” Miss Page’s voice was the prettiest mixture of pride and humility.</p>
			<p>“Do you happen to remember the book that you were reading?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly.”</p>
			<p>“Give us the title, please.”</p>
			<p>“The book was <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Cytherea</i>, one of Hergesheimer’s old novels.”</p>
			<p>“Was it your own book?”</p>
			<p>“No, it came from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s study.”</p>
			<p>“Had he loaned it to you?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Had <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives loaned it to you?”</p>
			<p>“No one had loaned it to me; I had simply borrowed it from the study.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you were given the run of the books in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s study? I see.” Miss Page sat silent, eyeing him steadily, only a slight stain of colour under the clear, pale skin betraying the fact that she had heard him. “Were you?” demanded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert savagely, leaning toward her.</p>
			<p>“Was I what?”</p>
			<p>“Were you given the run of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s library?”</p>
			<p>“I had never stopped to formulate it in that way. I supposed that there could be no possible objection to taking an occasional book.”</p>
			<p>“I see. You regarded yourself as one of the family?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, hardly that.”</p>
			<p>“Did you take your meals with them?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Spend the evenings with them?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>Miss Page’s fringed eyes were as luminous and steady as ever, but the stain in her cheeks had spread to her throat.</p>
			<p>“You resented that fact, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor’s voice whipped out of the brief silence like a sword leaping from the scabbard: “I object to that question. To paraphrase my learned opponent, what possible relevance has Miss Page’s sense of resentment or contentment got to do with the murder of this girl?”</p>
			<p>“And to quote my witty adversary’s reply, Your Honour, it has everything to do with it. We propose definitely to attack Miss Page’s credibility. We believe we can show that she detested <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives and would not hesitate to do her a disservice.”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said the prosecutor, with much deliberation, “that’s what you propose to show, is it?”</p>
			<p>Even the clatter of the judge’s gavel did not cause him to turn his head an inch. He continued to gaze imperturbably at the occupant in the box, who, demure and pensive, returned it unswervingly. In the brief moment occupied by the prosecutor’s skilful intervention the flush had faded entirely. Miss Page looked as cool and tranquil as a little spring in the forest.</p>
			<p>“You may answer the question, Miss Page,” said the judge a trifle sternly.</p>
			<p>“May I have the question repeated?”</p>
			<p>“I asked whether you didn’t resent the fact that you were treated as a servant rather than as a member of the household.”</p>
			<p>“It never entered my head that I was being treated as a servant,” said Miss Page gently.</p>
			<p>“It never entered your head?”</p>
			<p>“Not for a moment.”</p>
			<p>“You were perfectly satisfied with your situation in every way?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, perfectly.”</p>
			<p>“No cause for complaint whatever?”</p>
			<p>“None whatever.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Page, is this your writing? Don’t trouble to read it⁠—simply tell me whether it is your writing.”</p>
			<p>Miss Page bent docilely over the square of pale blue paper. “It looks like my writing.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t ask you whether it looked like it⁠—I asked you if it was your writing.”</p>
			<p>“I really couldn’t tell you that. Handwriting can be perfectly imitated, can’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Are you cross-examining me or am I cross-examining you?”</p>
			<p>Miss Page permitted herself a small, fugitive smile. “I believe that you are supposed to be cross-examining me.”</p>
			<p>“Then be good enough to answer my question. To the best of your belief, is this your writing?”</p>
			<p>“It is either my writing or a very good imitation of it.”</p>
			<p>The outraged <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert snatched the innocuous bit of paper from under his composed victim’s nose and proffered it to the clerk of the court as though it were something unclean. “I offer this letter in evidence.”</p>
			<p>“Just one moment,” said the prosecutor gently. “I don’t want to waste the Court’s time with a lot of useless objections, but it seems to me that this letter has not yet been identified by Miss Page, and as you are evidently unwilling to let her read it, for some occult reason that I don’t presume to understand, I must object to its being offered in evidence.”</p>
			<p>“What does this letter purport to be, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert?” inquired the judge amiably.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert turned his flaming countenance on the Court. “It purports to be exactly what it is, Your Honour⁠—a letter from Miss Page to her former employer, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives. And I am simply amazed at this hocus-pocus about her not being able to identify her own writing being tolerated for a minute. I⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Kindly permit the Court to decide what will be tolerated in the conduct of this case,” remarked the judge, in a voice from which all traces of amiability had been swept as by a cold wind. “What is the date of the purported letter?”</p>
			<p>“<time datetime="1925-05-07">May 7, 1925</time>.”</p>
			<p>“Did you write <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives a letter on that date, Miss Page?”</p>
			<p>“That’s quite a time ago, Your Honour. I certainly shouldn’t like to make any such statement under oath.”</p>
			<p>“Would it refresh your memory if you were to look over the letter?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, certainly.”</p>
			<p>“I think that you had better let Miss Page look over the letter if you wish to offer it in evidence, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert.”</p>
			<p>Once more <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert menacingly tendered the blue square, which Miss Page considered in a leisurely and composed manner in no way calculated to tranquillize the storm of indignation that was rocking him. Her perusal completed, she lifted a gracious countenance to the inflamed one before her. “Oh, yes, that is my letter.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert snatched it ungratefully. “I again offer this in evidence.”</p>
			<p>“No objection,” said the prosecutor blandly.</p>
			<p>“Now that you have fortified yourself with its contents, Miss Page, I will ask you to reconcile some of the statements that it contains with some later statements of yours made here under oath this afternoon:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">“My dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives:</p>
				<p>“I would like to call your attention to the fact that for the past three nights the food served me has evidently been that discarded by your servants as unfit for consumption. As you do not care to discuss these matters with me personally, I am forced to resort to this means of communication, and I ask you to believe that it is literally impossible to eat the type of meal that has been put before me lately. Boiled mutton which closely resembled boiled dishrags, stewed turnips, and a kind of white jelly that I was later informed was intended to be rice, and a savoury concoction of dried apricots, and sour milk was the menu for yesterday evening. You have made it abundantly clear to me that you regard me as a species of overpaid servant, but I confess that I had not gathered that slow starvation was to be one of my duties.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">“Sincerely,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">“Kathleen Page.”</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Kindly reconcile your statement that it had never entered your head that you were being treated as a servant with this sentence: ‘You have made it abundantly clear that you regard me as a species of overpaid servant.’ ”</p>
			<p>“That was a silly overwrought letter written by me when I was still suffering from the effects of a nervous and physical collapse. I had completely forgotten ever having written it.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you had, had you? Completely forgotten it, eh? Never thought of it from that day to this? Well, just give us the benefit of that wonderful memory of yours once more and tell us the effect of this letter on your relations with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives?”</p>
			<p>“It had a very fortunate effect,” said Miss Page, with her prettiest smile. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives very kindly rectified the situation that I was indiscreet enough to complain of, and the whole matter was cleared up and adjusted most happily.”</p>
			<p>“What?” The astounded monosyllable cracked through the courtroom like a rifle shot.</p>
			<p>“I said that it was all adjusted most happily,” replied Miss Page sunnily and helpfully, raising her voice slightly.</p>
			<p>Actual stupor had apparently descended on her interrogator.</p>
			<p>“Miss Page, you make it difficult for me to credit my ears. Is it not the fact that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives sent for you at once on receipt of that note, offered you a month’s wages in lieu of notice, and requested you to leave the following day?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing could be farther from the fact.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s voice seemed about to forsake him at the calm finality of this reply. He opened his mouth twice with no audible results, but at the third effort something closely resembling a roar emerged: “Are you telling me that you did not go on your knees to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives in floods of tears and tell her that it would be signing your death warrant to turn you out then, and implore her to give you another chance?”</p>
			<p>“I am telling you,” said Miss Page equably, “that nothing remotely resembling that occurred. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives was extremely regretful and considerate, and there was not a word as to my leaving.”</p>
			<p>Apoplexy hovered tentatively over <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s bulky shoulder. “Do you deny that two days before this murder your insolence had once more precipitated a scene that had resulted in your dismissal, and that you were intending to leave on the following Monday?”</p>
			<p>“Most certainly I deny it.”</p>
			<p>“A scene that arose from the fact that during <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s absence in town you ordered the car to take you and a friend of yours from White Plains for a three-hour drive in the country, and that when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives telephoned from town to have the car meet her, as she was returning that afternoon instead of the next day, she was informed that you were out in it and she was obliged to take a taxi?”</p>
			<p>“That is not true either.”</p>
			<p>“It is not true that you went for a drive with a young man that afternoon?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that is quite true; but I had <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s permission to do so before she left.”</p>
			<p>For a moment <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert turned his crimson countenance toward Susan Ives. She had lifted her head and was staring, steadily and contemptuously, at her erstwhile nursery governess, whose limpid eyes moved only from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Farr and back. Even the contempt could not extinguish a frankly diverted twist to her lips at the pat audacity of the gentle replies. Evidently <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert could find no comfort there. He turned back to his witness.</p>
			<p>“Miss Page, do you know what perjury is?”</p>
			<p>“Your Honour⁠—”</p>
			<p>Miss Page’s lightning promptitude cut through the prosecutor’s voice: “It’s a demonstrably false statement made under oath, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Just wait a minute, please, Miss Page. Your Honour, I respectfully submit that this entire line of cross-examination by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert is extremely objectionable. I have let it go this far because I don’t want to prolong this trial with a lot of unnecessary bickering; but, as far as I can see, he has simply been entertaining the jury with a series of exciting little episodes that there is not a shred of reason to believe are not the offspring of his own fertile imagination. According to Miss Page, they are just exactly that. They are, however, skilfully calculated to prejudice her in the eyes of the jury, and when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert goes so far as to imply in no uncertain manner that Miss Page’s denial of these fantasies is perjury, I can no longer⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Your Honour, do you consider this oration for the benefit of the jury proper?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s voice was unsteady with rage.</p>
			<p>“I do not, sir. Nor do I consider it the only impropriety that has occurred. I see no legitimate place in cross-examination for a request for a definition of perjury. However, you have received your reply. You may proceed with your cross-examination.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Page, when you realized that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives was talking to someone on the telephone, why did you not go on into the house?”</p>
			<p>“Because I was interested in what she was saying.”</p>
			<p>“So you eavesdropped, eh?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“A very pretty, honourable, decent thing to do in your opinion?”</p>
			<p>“Oh,” said Miss Page, with her most disarming smile, “I don’t pretend not to be human.”</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s very reassuring. Can you tell us why <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives didn’t hear you outside on the porch, Miss Page?”</p>
			<p>“I wasn’t on the porch. I had just started to come up the steps when I stopped to listen. I had on tennis shoes, which wouldn’t make any noise at all on the lawn.”</p>
			<p>“You say that you could hear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives distinctly?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite.”</p>
			<p>“So that anybody else could have heard her distinctly too?”</p>
			<p>“Anyone who was standing in that place could have⁠—yes.”</p>
			<p>“She was making a secret rendezvous and yet was speaking in a tone sufficiently audible for any passerby to hear?”</p>
			<p>“She probably thought there would be no passerby.”</p>
			<p>“Your Honour, I ask to have that stricken from the record as deliberately unresponsive.”</p>
			<p>“You were not asked as to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s thoughts, Miss Page. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert asked you whether any passerby could not have heard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives’s conversation.”</p>
			<p>“Anyone who passed over the route that I did could have heard it perfectly.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives could have heard it?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives was upstairs.”</p>
			<p>“That was not my question. I asked you if Patrick Ives could not have heard it quite as readily as you?”</p>
			<p>“He could, if he had been there.”</p>
			<p>“Miss Page, will you be good enough to repeat that conversation for us once again?”</p>
			<p>“The whole thing?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives said”⁠—again the little frown of concentration⁠—“she said, ‘Is that you Stephen?⁠ ⁠… It’s Sue⁠—Sue Ives. Is Mimi there?⁠ ⁠… How long ago did she leave?⁠ ⁠… Are you sure she went there?⁠ ⁠… No, wait⁠—this is vital⁠—I have to see you at once. Can you get the car here in ten minutes?⁠ ⁠… No, not at the house. Stop at the far corner of the back road. I’ll come through the back gate to meet you.⁠ ⁠… Elliot hasn’t said anything to you?⁠ ⁠… No, no, never mind that⁠—just hurry.⁠ ⁠… Goodbye.’ ”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert beamed at her⁠—a ferocious and colossal beam. “Now, that’s very nice⁠—very nice, indeed, Miss Page. Every word pat, eh? Almost as though you’d learned it by heart, shouldn’t you say?”</p>
			<p>“That’s probably because I did learn it by heart,” proffered Miss Page helpfully.</p>
			<p>The beam forsook <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert’s countenance, leaving the ferocity. “Oh, you learned it by heart, did you? Between the front steps and the side door, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Not exactly. I wrote it down before I went in the side door.”</p>
			<p>“You did what?”</p>
			<p>“I wrote it down while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives was talking, most of it. The last sentence or so I did just before I came in.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert took a convulsive grip on his sagging jaw. “Oh, indeed! Brought back a portable typewriter and a fountain pen and a box of notepaper from the sandpile, too, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>Miss Page smiled patiently and politely.</p>
			<p>“No; but I had some crayons of the children’s in my sweater pocket.”</p>
			<p>“And half a dozen pads, too, no doubt?”</p>
			<p>“No, I wrote it on the flyleaf of the book⁠—<i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Cytherea</i>, you know.”</p>
			<p>“For what purpose did you write this down?” The voice of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert was the voice of one who has run hard and long toward a receding goal.</p>
			<p>“It sounded important to me; I didn’t want to make any mistakes.”</p>
			<p>“Quite so. So your story is that you took this information, which you admit you acquired by eavesdropping on the woman you claim had been invariably kind and generous to you, straight to her husband, in the fond expectation of ruining both their lives?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, indeed⁠—in the expectation of saving them. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives had been even kinder to me than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives; I was desperately anxious to help them both.”</p>
			<p>“And this was your idea of helping them?”</p>
			<p>“It was probably a stupid way,” said Miss Page humbly. “But it was the only one that I could think of. I was afraid they were planning to elope, and I thought that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives might be able to stop them. You see, I hadn’t realized then the real significance of the telephone conversation.”</p>
			<p>“What real significance, if you please?”</p>
			<p>“The fact that someone must have told <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives all about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives’s affair with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Bellamy before she went out that night,” said Miss Page softly.</p>
			<p>“Your Honour,” said the flagging voice⁠—“Your Honour, I ask that that reply be stricken from the record as unresponsive.”</p>
			<p>“The Court does not regard it as unresponsive. You requested Miss Page to give her final interpretation of the telephone conversation and she has given it.”</p>
			<p>“May I have an exception, Your Honour?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>“Then the story that you expect this jury to believe, Miss Page, is that nothing but affectionate zeal prompted you to spy on this benefactress of yours and to bear the glad tidings of her infidelity to her unsuspecting husband⁠—tidings acquired through a reputed conversation of which you were the sole witness and the self-constituted recorder?”</p>
			<p>“I hope that they will believe me,” said Miss Page meekly. For one brief moment her ingenuous eyes rested appealingly on the twelve stolid and inscrutable countenances.</p>
			<p>“And I hope that you are unduly optimistic,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert heavily. “That is all, Miss Page.”</p>
			<p>“Just one moment,” said the prosecutor easily. “Miss Page, when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lambert asked you whether anyone couldn’t have overheard that conversation, he prevented you from explaining why no one was likely to. Let’s first get that straight. Where was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daniel Ives?”</p>
			<p>“In the rose garden.”</p>
			<p>“That was where she usually went after dinner, wasn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Always, I think. She used to work out there for an hour or so until it got dark, because that was the coolest part of the day.”</p>
			<p>“Was the rose garden visible from the study?”</p>
			<p>“Quite clearly. A window overlooked the little paved terrace that led down into the rose garden.”</p>
			<p>“So that it would have been simple for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives to verify whether <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Daniel Ives was in the garden?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, quite.”</p>
			<p>“Where were the servants apt to be at that time?”</p>
			<p>“They would be having their dinner in the back part of the house⁠—they dined after the family.”</p>
			<p>“What about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Ives knew that he had gone upstairs. He told me that she had been helping him to fasten the little pennant on in the study just before he came up.”</p>
			<p>“And she thought that you were upstairs, too, didn’t she?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes; I was not in the habit of coming down after dinner. I had my meals in the nursery.”</p>
			<p>“Did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Ives use the study much⁠—to write or to work in, I mean?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know how much he worked in it; he had quite a collection of technical volumes in it, but I don’t believe that he did much writing, though. He had a very large, flat-topped desk that he used as a kind of work bench.”</p>
			<p>“Where he made the boats and dollhouses?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Kept his tools and materials?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Was that desk visible from the door?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; it was directly opposite the door into the hall.”</p>
			<p>“Would a person going from the flower room to the foot of the nursery stairs pass it?”</p>
			<p>“They could not very well avoid doing so.”</p>
			<p>“Would the contents of the top of the desk be visible from the doorway?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, surely. The study is not a large room.”</p>
			<p>The prosecutor made two strides toward the witness box. Something small and dark and bright glinted for a moment in his hand. “Miss Page, have you ever seen this knife before?”</p>
			<p>Very delicately Miss Page lifted it in her slender fingers, eyeing it gravely and fastidiously. “Yes,” she said quietly.</p>
			<p>A little wind seemed to blow suddenly through the courtroom⁠—a little, cold, ominous wind.</p>
			<p>“Where?”</p>
			<p>“On the desk in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Patrick Ives’s study on the afternoon of the <time datetime="1926-06-19">nineteenth of June, 1926</time>.”</p>
			<p>In a voice almost as gentle as her own, the prosecutor said, “That will be all, Miss Page. You may go.”</p>
			<p>And as lightly, as softly as she had come, Miss Page slipped from the witness box and was gone.</p>
			<p>The second day of the Bellamy trial was over.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
